=== Remibrutinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5630)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Remibrutinib is a Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) in adult patients who remain symptomatic despite H1 antihistamine treatment.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 50 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, hematoma, hematuria, petechiae, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Avoid use of live and live-attenuated vaccines in individuals receiving remibrutinib.

Brand Names
  - Rhapsido

Dosage Forms
  - Rhapsido 25mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        25 mg PO twice daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of chronic spontaneous urticaria in adult patients who remain symptomatic despite H1 antihistamine treatment

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Avoid use of live and live-attenuated vaccines in individuals receiving remibrutinib. There are no data available on the effects of live or live-attenuated vaccines administration to individuals receiving remibrutinib.
    Headline
    bleeding disorder, major surgery, planned procedure
    General Information
    Use remibrutinib with caution in patients with a bleeding disorder due to an increased risk of bleeding in these patients. Interrupt remibrutinib treatment for 3 to 7 days prior to and after major surgery or planned procedure. Risk of bleeding may increase with concomitant use of anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy. Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Avoid use of remibrutinib in patients with mild (Child-Pugh class A), moderate (Child-Pugh class B), and severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, including hepatic failure. Exposure to remibrutninib is higher in people with mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment compared to those with normal hepatic function.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of remibrutinib during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of remibrutinib to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis at exposures 141-times the human exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 25 mg twice daily based on area under the curve (AUC) resulted in adverse developmental outcomes including external malformations (e.g., open/opaque eyes, small jaws, hyperflexion of forelimbs). No adverse developmental effects were observed with oral administration of remibrutinib to pregnant rats during organogenesis at exposures up to 126-times the human exposure at the MRHD; however, at 194-times the MRHD there was a slightly higher mean number of stillborn, dead, or missing pups and smaller mean litter size. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to remibrutinib during pregnancy. Pregnant women exposed to remibrutinib and healthcare providers are encouraged to contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1-888-669-6682.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    No data are available regarding the presence of remibrutinib in either human or animal milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the mother's clinical need for remibrutinib and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from remibrutinib or from the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of remibrutinib during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of remibrutinib to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis at exposures 141-times the human exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 25 mg twice daily based on area under the curve (AUC) resulted in adverse developmental outcomes including external malformations (e.g., open/opaque eyes, small jaws, hyperflexion of forelimbs). No adverse developmental effects were observed with oral administration of remibrutinib to pregnant rats during organogenesis at exposures up to 126-times the human exposure at the MRHD; however, at 194-times the MRHD there was a slightly higher mean number of stillborn, dead, or missing pups and smaller mean litter size. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to remibrutinib during pregnancy. Pregnant women exposed to remibrutinib and healthcare providers are encouraged to contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1-888-669-6682.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    No data are available regarding the presence of remibrutinib in either human or animal milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the mother's clinical need for remibrutinib and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from remibrutinib or from the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with remibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and adagrasib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of remibrutinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of remibrutinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and thrombolytics. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Anthrax Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Anticoagulants (selected): (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Apixaban: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Argatroban: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and avacopan due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and berotralstat due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ceritinib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and chloramphenicol due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ciprofloxacin due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and remibrutinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and conivaptan due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and crizotinib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and cyclosporine due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase cyclosporine exposure. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and cyclosporine is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor closely for bleeding and other dabigatran-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of remibrutinib in patients with CrCl greater than 50 mL/minute, as remibrutinib may increase dabigatran exposure and both agents elevate the risk of bleeding. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is used for treatment or reduction of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE), or for prophylaxis following hip replacement surgery. Additionally, avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in those with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing remibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use of remibrutinib at 4x the recommended dose has been observed to increase digoxin overall exposure by 1.4-fold .
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and diltiazem due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV : (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid; Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed, DT, Td: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria/Tetanus Toxoids; Pertussis Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with remibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with remibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with remibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with remibrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of remibrutinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of remibrutinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and dronedarone due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and duvelisib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Edoxaban: (Major) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and edoxaban, as both medications increase bleeding risk and their combined use may further elevate this risk. Consider an edoxaban dose reduction for patients being treated for DVT or PE as remibrutinib may also increase edoxaban exposure. Edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. The manufacturer recommends reducing edoxaban to 30 mg PO once daily when used with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because clinical data on concomitant P-gp inhibitor use in DVT/PE are limited, clinicians should use professional judgment and adjust edoxaban dosing based on patient response if coadministered with remibrutinib. Based on experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation, no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of remibrutinib. Increased edoxaban concentrations during coadministration may occur; therefore, close monitoring for increased adverse effects is advised.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with remibrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with remibrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with remibrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with remibrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with remibrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with remibrutinib due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and erythromycin due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and fedratinib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and fluconazole due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and fluvoxamine due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and fosamprenavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and remibrutinib as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-gp and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during remibrutinib treatment due to the risk of increased remibrutinib exposure and adverse reactions. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Heparin: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Hepatitis A Vaccine, Inactivated: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hepatitis A Vaccine, Inactivated; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Human Papillomavirus 9-Valent Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and idelalisib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and imatinib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Influenza Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence. (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and isavuconazonium due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and itraconazole due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Japanese Encephalitis Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with remibrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and oral lefamulin due to the risk for increased exposure of both drugs and related adverse effects. Remibrutinib may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and oral lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and letermovir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and lonafarnib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with remibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with remibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with remibrutinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Meningococcal Group B (MenB-4C) Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Group B (MenB-FHbp) Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Groups A, B, C, W, and Y Vaccine (5 valent): (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Groups A, C, W, and Y Vaccine (4 valent): (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and mifepristone due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with remibrutinib. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and remibrutinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and nefazodone due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and nelfinavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and netupitant due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and nilotinib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and nirogacestat due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Non-Live Vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and remibrutinib due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit P-gp.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and posaconazole due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase posaconazole exposure. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and posaconazole is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 1.8-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and remibrutinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Rabies Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and relacorilant due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and remibrutinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer remibrutinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and remibrutinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer remibrutinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure, reducing its efficacy, and increase repotrectinib exposure, increasing the risk of repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Respiratory Syncytial Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and thrombolytics. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold, while use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased exposure by 4.3-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold, while use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased exposure by 4.3-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with remibrutinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Rivaroxaban: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and saquinavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase saquinavir exposure. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and saquinavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and remibrutinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of remibrutinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with remibrutinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and thrombolytics. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with remibrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with remibrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and thrombolytics. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Tick-Borne Encephalitis Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and tipranavir due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase tipranavir exposure. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and tipranavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of remibrutinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; remibrutinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and verapamil due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and tucatinib due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with remibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with remibrutinib due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and verapamil due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of remibrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of remibrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and voriconazole due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and voxelotor due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, hematoma, hematuria, petechiae
    General Information
    In the pooled safety population, bleeding occurred in 9% of patients treated with remibrutinib compared to 2% treated with placebo during the 24-week controlled treatment period; none of the reported bleeding reactions were severe. Bleeding includes conjunctival bleeding, contusion, ecchymosis, epistaxis, gingival bleeding, hematoma, hematuria, hemorrhagic ovarian cyst, intermenstrual bleeding, petechiae, purpura, and urinary occult blood. Petechiae (4%) and contusion (2%) were the most commonly reported reactions in remibrutinib-treated subjects. Bleeding reactions led to remibrutinib discontinuation in 0.5% of subjects. No association between bleeding reactions and low platelet counts was observed. Similar safety findings were observed through Week 52.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      petechiae
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Nasopharyngitis (11%), which includes acute or chronic sinusitis, pharyngitis, streptococcal pharyngitis, rhinitis, allergic rhinitis, and upper respiratory tract infection were reported in patients taking during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    headache, migraine
    General Information
    Headache, including migraine, was reported in 7% remibrutinib-treated subjects during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, nausea
    General Information
    Nausea and abdominal pain, including abdominal discomfort, abdominal distention, and upper abdominal pain, were each reported in 3% of remibrutinib patients and 2% of placebo patients during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Remibrutinib is a Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) in adult patients who remain symptomatic despite H1 antihistamine treatment. There is an increased risk of bleeding events with remibrutinib therapy; thus, interrupt therapy for 3 to 7 days before and after surgery or planned procedure. No data are available on the effects of live or live-attenuated vaccines in patients receiving remibrutinib. The use of live and live-attenuated vaccines should be avoided in patients receiving remibrutinib.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Remibrutinib is an oral, small molecule kinase inhibitor that inhibits Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK). BTK is an intracellular protein expressed in mast cells, basophils, B cells, macrophages, and thrombocytes. BTK is involved in intracellular signaling via Fc epsilon receptor-1, Fc gamma receptors, and the B cell antigen receptor (BCR). Remibrutinib also inhibits the BTK-related kinases tec protein tyrosine kinase (TEC) and BMX non-receptor tyrosine kinase (BMX).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    At steady state, the median Tmax is 1 hour. Following administration of remibrutinib 25 mg twice daily, the mean (standard deviation) Cmax is 57 (27) ng/mL and AUClast is 193 (136) ng x h/mL at steady state. Remibrutinib Cmax and AUC increase in a dose-proportional manner between 0.4 to 4 times the recommended dosage. Following administration of multiple doses of 25 mg twice daily, Cmax increases 1.6-fold and AUC0-4 increases 2.7-fold. Administration with a high fat meal did not result in a clinically significant difference in the pharmacokinetics of remibrutinib.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    There is an increase in remibrutnib AUC and Cmax in individuals with hepatic impairment. Following administration of remibrutnib 25 mg PO twice daily, there was a 2.33-fold increase in AUC and 1.85-fold increase in Cmax in subjects with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A), a 2.3-fold increase in AUC and 1.65-fold increase in Cmax in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B), and a 3.49-fold increase in AUC and 1.99-fold increase in Cmax in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) compared to subjects with normal hepatic function.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of remibrutinib were observed in mild (eGFR 60 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2), moderate (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/min/1.73 m2) or severe (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m2) renal impairment.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of remibrutinib were observed based on age (range: 18 to 80 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of remibrutinib were observed based on gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of remibrutinib were observed based on race or ethnicity.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of remibrutinib were observed based on body weight.
  Text
  Remibrutinib is administered orally. Remibrutinib has an in vitro blood-to-plasma ratio of 0.813 and is 95.4% bound to plasma protein. At steady-state, the estimated apparent volume of distribution is 1238 L. Remibrutinib has an estimated elimination half-life of 1 to 2 hours and an apparent clearance of 160 L/hr. Remibrutinib primarily undergoes metabolism via the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Following IV administration of remibrutinib to healthy subjects, 70% was recovered in feces (0% as unchanged remibrutinib), and 30% was recovered in urine (2.9% as unchanged remibrutinib).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, BCRP, P-gp
Remibrutinib is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Coadministration with moderate and strong CYP3A4 inducers or inhibitors alter remibrutinib exposure. Remibrutinib inhibits CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4/5. Remibrutinib induces CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9 and CYP3A4/5. Remibrutinib inhibits P-gp, BCRP, BSEP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, OCT2 and MATE1. At 4-times the recommended dosage, remibrutinib increased the Cmax and AUC of digoxin (P-gp substrate) and rosuvastatin (BCRP substrate).

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take orally with or without food
Swallow remibrutinib tablet whole with water. Do not split, crush, or chew remibrutinib tablets.
If a dose or doses of remibrutinib is missed, skip the missed dose, and take the next dose at its regularly scheduled time. Do not take an extra dose(s) of remibrutinib to make up for a missed dose(s).
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    50 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    50 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Avoid remibrutinib use in individuals with mild (Child-Pugh class A), moderate (Child-Pugh class B), and severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
