=== Alglucosidase alfa — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3431)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alglucosidase alfa is an enzyme replacement therapy approved for the treatment of acid alpha-glucosidase deficiency (Pompe disease).

Routes: intravenous; Common adult doses: 20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): chest pain (unspecified), supraventricular tachycardia (svt), ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, arthropathy, glomerulonephritis, immune-mediated reactions, nephrotic syndrome, proteinuria, skin necrosis, skin ulcer

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. immune-mediated reactions Immune-mediated reactions, presenting as proteinuria, nephrotic syndrome, and necrotizing skin lesions, have occurred in some patients after alglucosidase alfa...

ALGLUCOSIDASE ALFA

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Lumizyme , Myozyme

Indication Specific Dosing

General Dosing Information
Use actual body weight to calculate dose.
Consider premedication with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids to reduce the risk of infusion-related reactions.


For the treatment of Pompe disease (acid alpha-glucosidase deficiency)

Intravenous dosage
Adults


20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.


Neonates


20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

immune-mediated reactions


Immune-mediated reactions, presenting as proteinuria, nephrotic syndrome, and necrotizing skin lesions, have occurred in some patients after alglucosidase alfa treatment. Systemic reactions, including possible type III immune-mediated reactions, have been observed several weeks to 3 years after treatment initiation. Monitor for the development of systemic immune-mediated reactions involving skin and other organs during treatment with alglucosidase alfa; patients should undergo periodic urinalysis. If immune-mediated reactions occur, initiate appropriate medical treatment, and consider therapy discontinuation. The risks and benefits of re-administering alglucosidase alfa after a severe reaction should be considered; some patients have been re-challenged and have continued to receive therapy under close medical supervision and extreme care. Perform a cross-reactive immunologic material (CRIM) assessment early in the disease course in patients with infantile-onset Pompe disease. CRIM-negative infants with infantile-onset Pompe disease treated with alglucosidase alfa have poorer clinical outcomes in the presence of high and sustained IgG antibody titers and positive inhibitory antibodies compared to CRIM-positive infants. In clinical studies, most patients developed IgG antibodies to alglucosidase alfa within 3 months of treatment. Some patients who develop high and sustained IgG antibody titers, including CRIM-negative patients, may experience reduced clinical alglucosidase alfa treatment efficacy, such as loss of motor function, ventilator dependence, or death. Monitor patients for IgG antibody formation every 3 months for 2 years and then annually thereafter. If a patient develops a hypersensitivity or other immune-mediated reaction, consider testing for IgG titers and for IgE antibodies to alglucosidase alfa. Immune tolerance induction administered prior to and in conjunction with alglucosidase alfa may increase tolerability of alglucosidase alfa, including in CRIM-negative patients.


pregnancy


Data from postmarketing and published case reports with alglucosidase alfa use during pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Consider the person's clinical need for treatment and individualize therapy. Daily administration of intravenous alglucosidase alfa up to 40 mg/kg/day in mice and rabbits (0.4 and 0.5 times the human steady-state exposure, respectively, at the recommended biweekly dose) during the period of organogenesis had no effects on embryo-fetal development. An increase in pup mortality during the lactation period was observed when alglucosidase alfa 40 mg/kg/day was administered every other day in mice during the period of organogenesis through lactation. Encourage people who are pregnant and those of reproductive potential to enroll in the Pompe patient registry. Information about the registry can be obtained at www.registrynxt.com or by calling 1-800-745-4447 (extension 15500).


serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis


Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis have been observed in patients during and up to 3 hours after alglucosidase alfa infusion. Some reactions were severe or life-threatening and included anaphylactic shock, cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, hypoxia, apnea, dyspnea, bradycardia, tachycardia, bronchospasm, throat tightness, hypotension, angioedema, and urticaria. Consider pretreatment with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids prior to alglucosidase alfa infusion. Administration requires a specialized care setting where cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment is readily available. Administration of alglucosidase alpha requires an experienced clinician knowledgeable in the management of hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis. Anaphylaxis has occurred during the early course of enzyme replacement therapy and after extended duration of therapy. If a severe alglucosidase alfa hypersensitivity reaction occurs, immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment, including the use of epinephrine. Consider the risks and benefits of re-administration after a severe reaction. Some patients have been re-challenged using slower infusion rates and lower than recommended dosages under close monitoring. If mild or moderate hypersensitivity or infusion-related reactions occur, decreasing the infusion rate, temporarily stopping the infusion, and/or administering antihistamines and/or antipyretics may ameliorate the symptoms. Closely monitor patients who have experienced infusion-related reactions when re-administering alglucosidase alfa.


breast-feeding


Use alglucosidase alfa with caution during breast-feeding. Alglucosidase alfa is present in human milk. There are no reports of adverse effects of alglucosidase alfa on the breast-fed child. There is no information on the effects of alglucosidase alfa on milk production. The lactating individual may consider interrupting breast-feeding, pumping, and discarding breast milk during treatment and for 24 hours after their dose to minimize exposure to the breast-fed child. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition. Lactating patients are encouraged to enroll in the Encourage patients who are breast-feeding to enroll in the Pompe patient registry. Information about the registry can be obtained at www.registrynxt.com or by calling 1-800-745-4447 (extension 15500).


fluid restriction, heart failure, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, respiratory failure, respiratory insufficiency


Individuals susceptible to fluid volume overload, such as those with acute underlying respiratory insufficiency or compromised cardiac disease or pulmonary disease for whom fluid restriction is indicated, may be at increased risk of heart failure, respiratory failure, or serious exacerbation of their cardiac or respiratory status during an alglucosidase alfa infusion. Acute cardiorespiratory failure has been reported in individuals with infantile-onset Pompe disease and pre-existing hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Monitor vitals frequently in individuals with acute underlying respiratory illness or compromised cardiac or respiratory function who require fluid restriction. Some individuals may require prolonged observation.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Data from postmarketing and published case reports with alglucosidase alfa use during pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Consider the person's clinical need for treatment and individualize therapy. Daily administration of intravenous alglucosidase alfa up to 40 mg/kg/day in mice and rabbits (0.4 and 0.5 times the human steady-state exposure, respectively, at the recommended biweekly dose) during the period of organogenesis had no effects on embryo-fetal development. An increase in pup mortality during the lactation period was observed when alglucosidase alfa 40 mg/kg/day was administered every other day in mice during the period of organogenesis through lactation. Encourage people who are pregnant and those of reproductive potential to enroll in the Pompe patient registry. Information about the registry can be obtained at www.registrynxt.com or by calling 1-800-745-4447 (extension 15500).


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Alglucosidase alfa products.

Adverse Reaction
anaphylactic shock, angioedema, apnea, bradycardia, bronchospasm, cardiac arrest, dyspnea, edema, hypotension, hypoxia, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, sinus tachycardia, urticaria


Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, including life-threatening reactions, have occurred during and within 3 hours after alglucosidase alfa infusion. Hypersensitivity reactions included anaphylactic shock, cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, respiratory distress, hypoxia, apnea, dyspnea, bradycardia, sinus tachycardia (8%), bronchospasm, throat tightness (3.3%), hypotension, angioedema (including tongue or lip swelling, periorbital edema, and face edema), and urticaria (8% to 13%). During clinical trials in late-onset Pompe disease patients (n = 60), anaphylaxis occurred in 7% of patients. Administration of alglucosidase alpha should be supervised by a healthcare provider knowledgeable in the management of hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis. Appropriate medical support including cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment should be readily available upon alglucosidase alfa administration. If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs, immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Consider the risks and benefits of re-administration after a severe reaction. Some patients have been re-challenged and have continued to receive the drug under close clinical supervision. Consider testing for IgG titers if a patient develops a hypersensitivity reaction; monitor all patients for the formation of IgG antibodies every 3 months for 2 years and then annually thereafter. Patients who experience anaphylactic or allergic reactions may also be tested for IgE antibodies to alglucosidase alfa and other mediators of anaphylaxis; patients who develop IgE antibodies to alglucosidase alfa appear to be at higher risk for hypersensitivity and therefore should be monitored closely during administration. Contact Genzyme Corporation at 1-800-745-4447 to obtain information on testing services for antibodies.


abdominal pain, agitation, anaphylactoid reactions, conjunctivitis, cough, cyanosis, diarrhea, dizziness, erythema, fatigue, fever, flushing, headache, hyperhidrosis, hypertension, infusion-related reactions, irritability, lacrimation, livedo reticularis, maculopapular rash, muscle cramps, myalgia, nausea, pallor, paresthesias, peripheral edema, pruritus, rash, restlessness, seizures, tachypnea, tremor, vomiting, wheezing


The most commonly reported adverse reactions to alglucosidase alfa are infusion-related hypersensitivity or anaphylactoid reactions, which occurred in 51% of patients during clinical trials. Reactions included rash (including erythematous, macular, and maculopapular rash; 3% to 18%), fever (15%), flushing (5% to 13%), hyperhidrosis (8.3%), cough (8%), tachypnea (8%), hypertension (5% to 10%), muscle cramps/twitching (7%), erythema (5%), pallor (5%), rigors (5%), vomiting (5%), fatigue (5% or more), myalgia (5%), cyanosis (5%), agitation (5%), tremor (5%), headache (3% or more), nausea (3% or more), dizziness (3% or more), pruritus (3%), diarrhea (3% or more), paresthesias (3% or more), peripheral edema (3%) and local swelling (3% or more). These reactions were more likely with higher infusion rates or doses. Delayed reactions (e.g., hyperhidrosis, fatigue, myalgia, nausea) may occur up to 48 hours after infusion completion. Additional hypersensitivity reactions observed included livedo reticularis, irritability, retching, increased lacrimation, rales, respiratory tract irritation, and cold sweat. Multiple incidences of wheezing, seizures, peripheral coldness, restlessness, nervousness, back pain, stridor, pharyngeal edema, abdominal pain, muscle spasm, and conjunctivitis have also been reported during postmarketing use. In addition, a case of hyperparathyroidism has been reported. Closely observe patients during and after drug administration and be prepared to manage hypersensitivity or infusion-related reactions; appropriate medical support, including cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment, should be readily available. Patients pre-treated with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids may still experience hypersensitivity reactions. Symptoms of infusion-related reactions may be ameliorated by decreasing the infusion rate, temporarily stopping the infusion, and/or administering antihistamines and/or antipyretics. If severe infusion-related or hypersensitivity reactions occur, immediately discontinue the alglucosidase alfa infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment.


chest pain (unspecified), supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia


Cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, bradycardia), requiring resuscitation and/or defibrillation or resulting in cardiac arrest or death, have been observed in patients with infantile-onset Pompe disease and cardiomyopathy undergoing general anesthesia. Use caution when administering general anesthesia for any reason, including the placement of a central venous catheter intended for alglucosidase alfa infusion. Chest pain (unspecified) has been reported in 7% of late-onset Pompe disease patients during clinical trials. One patient with a history of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome developed supraventricular tachycardia (SVT).


heart failure, respiratory arrest


Acute cardiorespiratory failure (e.g., heart failure, respiratory arrest) has been observed in infantile-onset Pompe disease patients with underlying cardiac hypertrophy, possibly associated with fluid overload from the administration of alglucosidase alfa. Patients with compromised cardiac or respiratory function may be at greater risk for acute cardiorespiratory failure and require additional monitoring.


antibody formation


As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. In clinical trials, the majority of patients (89% to 100%) tested positive for IgG antibody formation to alglucosidase alfa, typically within 3 months (median time to seroconversion was 4 weeks) of treatment. No apparent association between mean or peak IgG antibody titers and adverse reaction occurrence was noted. However, some alglucosidase alpha-treated patients with high IgG titers had a higher incidence of infusion-associated reactions. Also, evidence suggests some patients who develop high sustained IgG antibody titers may experience reduced clinical efficacy to alglucosidase treatment, such as loss of motor function, ventilator dependence, or death, possibly due to increased enzyme clearance. Test patients receiving alglucosidase alfa who experience a loss of motor function for neutralization of enzyme uptake or activity. During clinical trials, antibody titers for cellular uptake inhibition were present in 18 of 59 (31%) patients by week 78 of therapy. Patients who were positive for uptake inhibition tended to have higher IgG titers than patients who tested negative for uptake inhibition. The clearance values of alglucosidase alfa were approximately 1.2- to 1.8-fold greater in the presence of inhibitory antibodies as compared to in the absence of inhibitory antibodies. Additionally, hypersensitivity reactions may be more common in patients with antibodies to alglucosidase alfa. Patients who develop IgE antibodies to alglucosidase alfa appear to be at a higher risk for anaphylaxis and severe allergic reactions; monitor these patients more closely during alglucosidase alfa receipt. Some patients who tested positive were successfully re-challenged using a slower infusion rate at lower initial doses. A baseline serum anti-alglucosidase alpha antibody (ADA) sample collection prior to the first alglucosidase alpha infusion is strongly recommended. For patients with infantile-onset Pompe disease, regular ADA monitoring during the first year of treatment (example: every 3 months) is suggested. For patients with late-onset Pompe disease, monitor ADA within 6 months of alglucosidase alpha initiation with subsequent monitoring as clinically warranted based on safety and efficacy considerations. Testing for IgG titers may also be considered if patients develop hypersensitivity reactions, immune-mediated reactions, or lose clinical response. Patients who experience decreased clinical efficacy may also be tested for inhibitory activity. Those who experience anaphylactic or hypersensitivity reactions may also be tested for IgE antibodies to alglucosidase alfa and other mediators of anaphylaxis. Contact Genzyme Corporation at 1-800-745-4447 to obtain information on testing services for antibodies.


arthropathy, glomerulonephritis, immune-mediated reactions, nephrotic syndrome, proteinuria, skin necrosis, skin ulcer


Systemic and cutaneous immune-mediated reactions, including ulcerative and necrotizing skin lesions (skin ulcer and skin necrosis), proteinuria, and nephrotic syndrome, have occurred in some patients after alglucosidase alfa treatment. Systemic reactions, including possible type III immune-mediated reactions, have been observed several weeks to 3 years after treatment initiation. Deposition of anti-recombinant human acid alpha-glucosidase (anti-rhGAA) antibodies in the skin lesion was noted in 1 patient. Another patient developed severe inflammatory arthropathy in association with fever and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Nephrotic syndrome secondary to membranous glomerulonephritis has been observed in some Pompe disease patients with persistently positive anti-rhGAA IgG antibody titers. In response to clinical deterioration, a patient with Pompe disease and significant anti-rhGAA antibodies underwent an experimental immune tolerance regimen consisting of high doses of rhGAA. After 10 months of 5 times/week rhGAA therapy, the patient developed nephrotic syndrome; a kidney biopsy showed deposition of glomerular immune complexes containing rhGAA. The rhGAA was stopped temporarily, and then reinstituted at a reduced dose; the nephrotic syndrome resolved over a period of 5 months. Dose reduction appears to help by minimizing the antigenic load to the kidney, allowing time for resolution. Monitor for the development of systemic immune-mediated reactions involving skin and other organs during treatment with alglucosidase alfa; patients should undergo periodic urinalysis. If immune-mediated reactions occur, consider alglucosidase alfa discontinuation and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Consider the risks and benefits of re-administering alglucosidase alfa after a severe reaction; some patients have successfully been re-challenged and have continued to receive therapy under close clinical supervision. Monitor patient for IgG antibody formation regularly during the first year of treatment (example: every 3 months). If a patient develops a hypersensitivity or other immune-mediated reaction, consider testing for IgG titers and IgE antibodies to alglucosidase alfa.


Description

Alglucosidase alfa is an enzyme replacement therapy approved for the treatment of acid alpha-glucosidase deficiency (Pompe disease). Pompe disease is caused by a genetic deficiency in acid alpha-glucosidase, an enzyme required for lysosomal glycogen degradation. Accumulation of glycogen in skeletal and heart muscle results in muscular weakness and respiratory or heart failure. In infantile-onset Pompe disease, where the deficiency in acid alpha-glucosidase is absolute, accumulation of glycogen occurs primarily in the cardiac, hepatic, and skeletal muscles, leading to cardiomyopathy, progressive muscle weakness, and impairment of respiratory function. In late-onset Pompe disease, a less aggressive type with relative deficiency of acid alpha-glucosidase, accumulation of glycogen is limited primarily to the skeletal muscles, which leads to progressive muscle weakness and eventual confinement to a wheelchair and respiratory failure; severe cardiac involvement is rarely apparent in the late-onset form. For both types of Pompe disease, respiratory failure is the usual cause of death; without treatment, the infantile-onset type is rapidly lethal by the age of 1, whereas death in patients with late-onset Pompe disease ranges from early childhood to late adulthood depending on the rate of disease progression. In a study of infants and children with advanced Pompe disease, both survival and ventilation-free survival at week 104 were prolonged among patients that were 3 to 43 months of age at initiation of alglucosidase 20 mg/kg IV every 2 weeks. Clinical response is dependent on residual muscle function at the start of treatment; patients with the best clinical response tend to be those treated early in the disease process before significant muscular deterioration occurs. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis and life-threatening reactions, infusion-related reactions, and immune-mediated reactions can occur with alglucosidase alfa administration. Additionally, patients with compromised cardiac or respiratory function may be at risk of serious acute cardiorespiratory failure due to fluid overload. If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs, discontinue alglucosidase alfa and immediately initiate appropriate medical treatment. Premedication with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids is recommended. Alglucosidase alfa was FDA-approved in 2010.

Mechanism Of Action

Alglucosidase alfa provides an exogenous source of the lysosomal enzyme acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA), which is required for lysosomal glycogen degradation. After binding to mannose 6-phosphate (M6P) receptors on the cellular surface, alglucosidase alfa is internalized and transported into lysosomes where it undergoes proteolytic cleavage that results in increased enzymatic activity and the cleavage of glycogen. Pompe disease (acid maltase deficiency, glycogen storage disease type II, GSD II, glycogenosis type II) is an inherited disorder of glycogen metabolism caused by the absence or marked deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme GAA.

Pharmacokinetics

Alglucosidase alfa is administered intravenously. After intravenous administration, alglucosidase alfa binds to mannose-6-phosphate receptors on cellular surfaces, after which it is internalized and transported to lysozymes, where it undergoes proteolytic cleavage and exerts its therapeutic effects. Clinical pharmacodynamic studies have not been conducted for alglucosidase alfa.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

The pharmacokinetics of alglucosidase alfa were evaluated in 10 adult patients (age range: 19 to 57 years) receiving 20 mg/kg/dose as a 4-hour infusion. The estimated mean AUC was 1,890 mcg x hour/mL with 51% coefficient of variation (CV) and Cmax was 307 mcg/mL with 47% CV.

Pediatrics

Infants 1 to 7 months
The pharmacokinetics of alglucosidase alfa were evaluated in 13 infants (age range: 1 to 7 months) receiving 20 mg/kg/dose as a 4-hour infusion or 40 mg/kg/dose as a 6.5-hour infusion every 2 weeks. Systemic exposure was approximately dose proportional. Based on blood samples from 5 patients receiving the 20 mg/kg dose, estimated mean AUC was 811 mcg x hour/mL with 17% coefficient of variation (CV), Cmax was 162 mcg/mL with 19% CV, clearance was 24 mL/kg/hour with 16% CV, and half-life was 2.3 hours with 17% CV. These parameters were similar to those observed for older patients (n = 14; age range: 6 months to 3.5 years) also receiving 20 mg/kg/dose as a 4-hour infusion every 2 weeks.
 
Infants and Children 7 months to 13 years
The estimated mean AUC was 1,110 mcg x hour/mL with 68% CV and Cmax was 204 mcg/mL with 46% CV in 10 pediatric patients after a single 20 mg/kg dose given as a 4-hour infusion.

Other

Antibody titers
Five patients with infantile-onset Pompe disease and antibody titers 12,800 or greater had an average increase in drug clearance of 50% (range: 5% to 90%) from week 1 to week 12 of treatment; patients without high concentrations of antibodies (e.g., titers less than 12,800) had similar clearance values at baseline and week 12. An approximate 1.2- to 1.8-fold increase in clearance was also observed at week 52 in 4 of 5 patients with late-onset Pompe disease who tested positive for antibodies that inhibit the cellular uptake of enzyme. Positive inhibitory antibody status correlated with higher IgG titers.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied Section.

Injectable Administration


Requires a specialized clinician and care setting where cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment is readily available.
Prior to administration, consider pretreating with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids to reduce the risk of infusion-related reactions.


Intravenous Administration

Reconstitution
Do not use filter needles during preparation.
Calculate the required dose and number of vials to be diluted by multiplying the patient's weight by 20 mg/kg and dividing by 50. Round up to the nearest whole vial.
Allow vials to reach room temperature [20 to 25 degrees C (68 to 77 degrees F)] outside the refrigerator for approximately 30 minutes prior to reconstitution.
Using aseptic technique, slowly, in a drop-wise manner, inject 10.3 mL of Sterile Water for Injection to the inside wall of each vial. Do not inject the Sterile Water for Injection directly or forcefully onto the lyophilized cake to avoid foaming. Tilt and roll each vial gently. Do not invert, swirl, or shake. Once reconstituted, each vial contains 50 mg of alglucosidase alfa at a final concentration of 5 mg/mL. Discard any unused product.
Immediately inspect the reconstituted vials for particulate matter and discoloration. Discard if particles are present or the solution is discolored. However, following reconstitution, alglucosidase alfa particles, which appear as thin white strands or translucent fibers are possible (usually less than 10/vial). These particles are removed via in-line filtration during infusion and do not have a detectable effect on the purity or strength.
Storage: If immediate use is not possible, the reconstituted solution is stable for up to 24 hours refrigerated at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F). Storage at room temperature is not recommended. Protect from light. Do not freeze or shake.
 
Dilution
Prepare 0.9% Sodium Chloride for Injection infusion bag by removing a volume equal to the required alglucosidase alfa volume and any overfill.
Slowly withdraw the appropriate volume of reconstituted solution from each vial. Avoid foaming in the syringe. Discard any unused reconstituted solution remaining in the vial.
Prior to injecting the reconstituted alglucosidase alfa into the 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, remove airspace from the infusion bag to minimize particle formation.
Add the reconstituted solution slowly and directly into 0.9% Sodium Chloride for Injection infusion bag. Avoid foaming and introducing air in the infusion bag. Total infusion volume is based on the patient's actual body weight:
Weight 180.1 to 200 kg: The total infusion volume = 1,000 mL
Weight 160.1 to 180 kg: The total infusion volume = 900 mL
Weight 140.1 to 160 kg: The total infusion volume = 800 mL
Weight 120.1 to 140 kg: The total infusion volume = 700 mL
Weight 100.1 to 120 kg: The total infusion volume = 600 mL
Weight 60.1 to 100 kg: The total infusion volume = 500 mL
Weight 50.1 to 60 kg: The total infusion volume = 300 mL
Weight 35.1 to 50 kg: The total infusion volume = 250 mL
Weight 30.1 to 35 kg: The total infusion volume = 200 mL
Weight 20.1 to 30 kg: The total infusion volume = 150 mL
Weight 10.1 to 20 kg: The total infusion volume = 100 mL
Weight 2.6 to 10 kg: The total infusion volume = 50 mL
Weight 1.25 to 2.5 kg: The total infusion volume = 25 mL
Gently invert or massage the infusion bag to mix. Do not shake.
The solution will have a final concentration of 0.5 to 4 mg/mL after dilution.
Storage: Administer without delay. If immediate use is not possible, the diluted solution is stable for up to 24 hours refrigerated at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F). Protect from light. Do not freeze or shake.
 
Intravenous infusion
Consider pretreatment with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids.
Administer using an in-line low protein binding 0.2-micron filter.
Do not infuse in the same intravenous line with other products.
Administer the diluted IV infusion solution over approximately 4 hours.
Infuse at an initial rate no more than 1 mg/kg/hour, gradually increasing the rate by 2 mg/kg/hour every 30 minutes if there are no signs of hypersensitivity or infusion-related reactions. Measure vital signs at the end of each step. If vital signs are stable, the rate can be titrated to a maximum of 7 mg/kg/hour. The maximum rate is then maintained for the duration of the infusion.
Weight 180.1 to 200 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 50 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 150 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 250 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 350 mL/hour.
Weight 160.1 to 180 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 45 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 135 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 225 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 315 mL/hour.
Weight 140.1 to 160 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 40 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 120 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 200 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 280 mL/hour.
Weight 120.1 to 140 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 35 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 105 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 175 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 245 mL/hour.
Weight 100.1 to 120 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 30 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 90 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 150 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 210 mL/hour.
Weight 60.1 to 100 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 25 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 75 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 125 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 175 mL/hour.
Weight 50.1 to 60 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 15 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 45 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 75 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 105 mL/hour.
Weight 35.1 to 50 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 13 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 38 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 63 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 88 mL/hour.
Weight 30.1 to 35 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 10 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 30 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 50 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 70 mL/hour.
Weight 20.1 to 30 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 8 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 23 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 38 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 53 mL/hour.
Weight 10.1 to 20 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 5 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 15 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 25 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 35 mL/hour.
Weight 2.6 to 10 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 3 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 8 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 13 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 18 mL/hour.
Weight 1.25 to 2.5 kg: To achieve a dose of 1 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 1.25 mL/hour; for a dose of 3 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 3.75 mL/hour; for a dose of 5 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 6.25 mL/hour; and for a dose of 7 mg/kg/hour, the infusion rate is 6.6 mL/hour.
If a severe hypersensitivity or infusion-related reaction occurs, immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment, including the use of epinephrine.
Consider the risks and benefits of re-administering alglucosidase alfa after severe hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis).
Some patients have been re-challenged using slower infusion rates and lower than recommended dosages under close monitoring.
If a mild-to-moderate hypersensitivity or infusion-related reaction occurs, consider temporarily holding the infusion or slowing the infusion rate; administering antihistamines and/or antipyretics may ameliorate the symptoms.
Discard any unused diluted product.
Missed dose: If 1 or more doses of alglucosidase alfa are missed, restart treatment as soon as possible, maintaining the 2-week interval between infusions.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Geriatric

20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Adolescents

20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Children

20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Infants

20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Neonates

20 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier