=== Alpha-galactosidase — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5328)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alpha-galactosidase is an oral enzyme that acts locally in the gastrointestinal tract to help digest complex carbohydrates found in many healthy foods.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: In general, up to 1,200 GALU per mealtime dose PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dyspnea, rash, urticaria, wheezing

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy There are no available data on the use of alpha-galactosidase during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse...

ALPHA-GALACTOSIDASE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Beano, Beano Meltaways, Beano To Go, Gas-X Prevention

Indication Specific Dosing

For the prevention of gas (flatulence) and bloating due to ingestion of certain foods at meals

Oral dosage (Beano tablets)
Adults, Adolescents, and Children 12 years and older


2 to 3 tablets PO (swallowed whole or chewed) before the first bite of a meal that contains healthful foods that may cause gas. 2 tablets provide 800 galactosidase units (GALU).


Oral dosage (Beano Meltaways)
Adults, Adolescents, and Children 12 years and older


Dissolve 1 tablet on the tongue before the first bite of a meal that contains healthful foods that may cause gas. 1 tablet provides 450 galactosidase units (GALU).


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

galactosemia


Instruct patients who have galactosemia to consult their health care provider before use.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


There are no available data on the use of alpha-galactosidase during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes.


breast-feeding


Alpha-galactosidase is considered compatible with breast-feeding. Alpha-galactosidase is an enzyme that acts locally within the gastrointestinal tract; there are no data to indicate it is unsafe to use this enzyme during lactation.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no available data on the use of alpha-galactosidase during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Alpha-galactosidase products.

Adverse Reaction
dyspnea, rash, urticaria, wheezing


There are no common adverse reactions to alpha-galactosidase use as a dietary supplement. Hypersensitivity rarely occurs with alpha-galactosidase use, such as rash, urticaria, wheezing or dyspnea, or GI upset. Patients who experience a sensitivity to the product should discontinue use.


Description

Alpha-galactosidase is an oral enzyme that acts locally in the gastrointestinal tract to help digest complex carbohydrates found in many healthy foods. Alpha-galactosidase, when taken before the first bite of such foods helps to prevent gas, bloating, and discomfort.

Mechanism Of Action

The body does not completely break down some complex carbohydrates found in certain foods; bacteria in the gut help break down some of these foods but produce gas in the process. Alpha-galactosidase enzyme activity is specific to materials containing one or more alpha-1, 6-galactopryanosyl groups in their structure and works with the body's digestion processes to break down the complex sugars in gassy foods making them more digestible, helping to prevent gas before it even starts. This enzyme targets a whole variety of foods that contain these complex carbohydrates, including many beans and other vegetables, grains, cereals, nuts, seeds and many other foods.

Pharmacokinetics

Specific pharmacokinetic data for alpha-galactosidase are not available. After oral ingestion, the enzyme acts locally within the gut.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Administer as directed on the product label, right before the first bite of problem food. These products can help prevent symptoms of stomach gas caused by a variety of foods at meals including:
Veggies like broccoli, lettuce, peppers, and carrots
Proteins like beans and peanuts
Whole grains like whole wheat and oat bran
Oral tablets may be chewed or swallowed whole.
Meltaway tablets should be allowed to dissolve on the tongue.


Maximum Dosage Limits

A daily value for intake and a maximum daily dosage have not been established. Do not exceed labeled dosage.

Adults

In general, up to 1,200 GALU per mealtime dose PO.

Geriatric

In general, up to 1,200 GALU per mealtime dose PO.

Adolescents

In general, up to 1,200 GALU per mealtime dose PO.

Children

12 years: In general, up to 1,200 GALU per mealtime dose PO.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Beano 150units Tablet

Beano Meltaways 300units Tablet (Strawberry)

Beano Meltaways 450units Tablet (Strawberry)

Beano To Go 150units Tablet

CVS Beanaid 300units Capsule

Gas-X Prevention Capsule

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier