=== Propylhexedrine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5322)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Propylhexedrine is a nasal inhalational decongestant used for the temporarily relief of nasal congestion due to a cold, hay fever, or other upper respiratory allergies (allergic rhinitis).

Routes: inhalation

In an Overdose: In the event of a suspected overdose, attempt to determine whether a patient used propylhexedrine alone or with other substances.

Key Nursing Considerations: For nasal use only. The use of this nasal inhaler by more than 1 person may spread infection.

Brand Names
  - Benzedrex

Dosage Forms
  - Benzedrex Nasal Decongestant Inhaler

Interactions
There are no drug interactions associated with Propylhexedrine products.

Description
  Text
  Propylhexedrine is a nasal inhalational decongestant used for the temporarily relief of nasal congestion due to a cold, hay fever, or other upper respiratory allergies (allergic rhinitis). It works by reducing swelling and inflammation of the mucous membrane lining of the nose.
 
In March 2021, the FDA warned health care professionals that some individuals are abusing or misusing propylhexedrine, particularly using it by routes other than nasal inhalation, which can result in serious cardiac and psychiatric adverse events or death. In the event of a suspected overdose, attempt to determine whether a patient used propylhexedrine alone or with other substances. There is no specific reversal agent in cases of acute intoxication, so symptomatic and supportive care should be provided.
 
Full monograph coming soon!
 
Product Precautions
Do not exceed recommended dosage. Use only as directed.
This product may cause temporary discomfort such as burning, stinging, sneezing, or an increase in nasal discharge.
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen.
Ill effects may result if taken internally.
DO NOT USE: Do not use this product for more than 3 days. Stop use and consult a doctor if symptoms persist. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
Warning: Patients should only use propylhexedrine according to the product directions. Do not use it in ways other than by inhalation because doing so can cause serious harm, such as heart and mental health problems. Some of these problems can lead to death. Seek medical attention immediately by calling 911 or 1-800-222-1222 in the U.S. for anyone using propylhexedrine who experiences the following:
Severe anxiety or agitation, confusion, hallucinations, or paranoia
Rapid heartbeat or abnormal heart rhythm
Chest pain or tightness
 
Administration
For nasal use only.
The use of this nasal inhaler by more than 1 person may spread infection.
Keep inhaler tightly closed.
Keep out of the reach of children.
Once in use; the nasal inhaler is effective for a minimum of 3 months after first use. Discard after this time as recommended on the product label.
 
Dosage
Nasal dosage (Benzedrex decongestant nasal inhaler)
Adults, Adolescents, and Children 6 to 12 years (with adult supervision): 2 inhalations in each nostril not more than every 2 hours as needed. Do not exceed recommended dosage.
