=== Adapalene/Benzoyl Peroxide — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3615)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Adapalene; benzoyl peroxide is a topical combination product indicated for the treatment of acne vulgaris.

Routes: topical; Common adult doses: 1 application per day topically.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): atopic dermatitis, blepharedema, conjunctivitis, contact dermatitis, erythema, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, skin discoloration, skin hyperpigmentation, skin hypopigmentation, skin irritation, xerosis, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. skin photosensitivity disorder Avoid sunlight (UV) exposure, including sunlamps, during treatment with adapalene; benzoyl peroxide. Patients who may have considerable sun exposure due...

ADAPALENE/BENZOYL PEROXIDE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Epiduo

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of acne vulgaris

Topical dosage (adapalene 0.1%; benzoyl peroxide 2.5% gel or gel pad)
Adults


Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) once daily.


Children and Adolescents 9 to 17 years


Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) once daily.


Topical dosage (adapalene 0.3%; benzoyl peroxide 2.5% gel)
Adults


Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) once daily.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) once daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

skin photosensitivity disorder


Avoid sunlight (UV) exposure, including sunlamps, during treatment with adapalene; benzoyl peroxide. Patients who may have considerable sun exposure due to their occupation and those patients with skin photosensitivity disorder should exercise particular caution when using adapalene; benzoyl peroxide. If sun exposure cannot be avoided, broad spectrum sunscreen products and physical sun blocks (protective clothing, hats) are recommended for protection of treated areas. Weather extremes, such as wind or cold, also may be irritating to patients receiving adapalene; benzoyl peroxide.


pregnancy


Available data regarding the use of adapalene; benzoyl peroxide during pregnancy are insufficient to establish a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriages, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with the combination product. For the adapalene component, no teratogenic effects were observed in rats treated with oral doses of 0.15 to 5 mg adapalene/kg/day, up to 8- to 25-times the maximum recommended human (MRHD) dose of 2 grams. However, teratogenic changes were observed in rats and rabbits when treated with oral doses of at least 25 mg adapalene/kg/day (i.e., 41- to 123-times and 81- to 246-times MRHD, respectively). These findings included cleft palate, microphthalmia, encephalocele, and skeletal abnormalities in rats; and umbilical hernia, exophthalmos, and kidney and skeletal abnormalities in rabbits. Dermal teratogenic studies in rats and rabbits at doses of up to 6 mg/kg/day, 9.7- to 59-times MRHD, exhibited no fetotoxicity, minimal increases in supernumerary ribs in both species, and delayed ossification in rabbits. For benzoyl peroxide, systemic exposure is unknown and benzoyl peroxide is rapidly metabolized to benzoic acid (an endogenous substance) which is eliminated in the urine; therefore, maternal use is not expected to result in fetal drug exposure.


breast-feeding


There are no data on the presence of benzoyl peroxide, adapalene topical gel, or their metabolites in human milk, the effects on a breast-fed infant, or the effects on milk production. For benzoyl peroxide, systemic exposure is unknown and benzoyl peroxide is rapidly metabolized to benzoic acid (an endogenous substance) which is eliminated in the urine; therefore, any amount of benzoyl peroxide excreted into human milk by a nursing mother would be rapidly metabolized by tissue and stomach esterases. Adapalene is poorly absorbed through human intact skin and the amount of drug excreted into the breast milk is expected to be minimal. However, it is possible that topical administration of large amounts of adapalene could result in sufficient systemic absorptions to produce detectable quantities. To minimize potential exposure to a breast-fed infant, use adapalene; benzoyl peroxide on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breast-feeding. Instruct patients not to apply to the area near the nipples, and be careful to avoid direct contact between the infant and the treated area. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. 


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data regarding the use of adapalene; benzoyl peroxide during pregnancy are insufficient to establish a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriages, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with the combination product. For the adapalene component, no teratogenic effects were observed in rats treated with oral doses of 0.15 to 5 mg adapalene/kg/day, up to 8- to 25-times the maximum recommended human (MRHD) dose of 2 grams. However, teratogenic changes were observed in rats and rabbits when treated with oral doses of at least 25 mg adapalene/kg/day (i.e., 41- to 123-times and 81- to 246-times MRHD, respectively). These findings included cleft palate, microphthalmia, encephalocele, and skeletal abnormalities in rats; and umbilical hernia, exophthalmos, and kidney and skeletal abnormalities in rabbits. Dermal teratogenic studies in rats and rabbits at doses of up to 6 mg/kg/day, 9.7- to 59-times MRHD, exhibited no fetotoxicity, minimal increases in supernumerary ribs in both species, and delayed ossification in rabbits. For benzoyl peroxide, systemic exposure is unknown and benzoyl peroxide is rapidly metabolized to benzoic acid (an endogenous substance) which is eliminated in the urine; therefore, maternal use is not expected to result in fetal drug exposure.


Interactions

Aminolevulinic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of adapalene and photosensitizing agents may cause additive phototoxicity; use together with caution.
Benzalkonium Chloride; Benzocaine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as benzocaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Benzocaine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as benzocaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Benzocaine; Butamben; Tetracaine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as benzocaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic. (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as tetracaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Calamine; Pramoxine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as pramoxine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Clindamycin; Tretinoin: (Moderate) Benzoyl peroxide can potentiate the skin irritation caused by topical tretinoin. Concurrent application of these agents on areas treated with tretinoin should be avoided.
Dapsone: (Minor) Coadministration of topical benzoyl peroxide-containing products with topical sulfone products, such as dapsone, may cause skin and facial hair to temporarily change color to a yellow/orange color.
Dibucaine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as dibucaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Ethyl Chloride: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as ethyl chloride. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Fluocinolone; Hydroquinone; Tretinoin: (Moderate) Benzoyl peroxide can potentiate the skin irritation caused by topical tretinoin. Concurrent application of these agents on areas treated with tretinoin should be avoided. (Minor) Keratolytic agents or products that contain keratolytic agents, such as benzoyl peroxide, can potentiate the skin irritation caused by hydroquinone and hydroquinone-containing products. Also, concurrent use of topical hydroquinone and topical peroxide (e.g., benzoyl peroxide) on the same area of skin can result in transient dark staining of the skin due to oxidation of hydroquinone. Removal of staining can be accomplished by discontinuing concurrent use and by normal soap cleansing. Concurrent application of such agents should generally be avoided.
Halobetasol; Tazarotene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tazarotene and dermatologic products containing benzoyl peroxide should be avoided. The manufacturer suggests that a patient's skin rest until the effects of such preparations subside before using tazarotene. When used together as part of acne therapy, these medications should be used separately at different times of the day to minimize skin irritation, unless directed otherwise by the prescriber. If skin irritation occurs, a decrease in dose or frequency of one or both agents may be necessary.
Hydrocortisone; Pramoxine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as pramoxine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Hydroquinone: (Minor) Keratolytic agents or products that contain keratolytic agents, such as benzoyl peroxide, can potentiate the skin irritation caused by hydroquinone and hydroquinone-containing products. Also, concurrent use of topical hydroquinone and topical peroxide (e.g., benzoyl peroxide) on the same area of skin can result in transient dark staining of the skin due to oxidation of hydroquinone. Removal of staining can be accomplished by discontinuing concurrent use and by normal soap cleansing. Concurrent application of such agents should generally be avoided.
ISOtretinoin: (Moderate) Benzoyl peroxide will cause additive irritant and drying effects with concomitant oral isotretinoin use. Reduction in the dose or temporary discontinuation of the benzoyl peroxide product may be needed until skin irritation resolves.
Lidocaine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as lidocaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as lidocaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Lidocaine; Hydrocortisone: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as lidocaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Lidocaine; Menthol: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as lidocaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as lidocaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic. (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as prilocaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Lidocaine; Tetracaine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as lidocaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic. (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as tetracaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Menthol; Pramoxine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as pramoxine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Methoxsalen: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and adapalene together with caution; the risk of severe burns or phototoxicity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Moderate) Concomitant use of adapalene and photosensitizing agents may cause additive phototoxicity; use together with caution.
Porfimer: (Major) Avoid coadministration of porfimer with adapalene due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Porfimer is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with porfimer will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like adapalene may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction. (Major) Avoid coadministration of porfimer with benzoyl peroxide due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. All patients treated with porfimer will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like benzoyl peroxide may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Pramoxine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as pramoxine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Pramoxine; Zinc Acetate: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as pramoxine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products with adapalene should be done cautiously because of additive local irritation. Particular caution should be exercised in using adapalene in combination with preparations containing salicylic acid. If these preparations have been used, it is advisable not to start therapy with adapalene until the effects of such preparations in the skin have subsided. (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzoyl peroxide and topical products containing salicylic acid on the same area of skin will cause additive irritant and drying effects. Reduction in the dose or temporary discontinuation of the benzoyl peroxide product may be needed until skin irritation resolves.
Sodium Thiosulfate; Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products with adapalene should be done cautiously because of additive local irritation. Particular caution should be exercised in using adapalene in combination with preparations containing salicylic acid. If these preparations have been used, it is advisable not to start therapy with adapalene until the effects of such preparations in the skin have subsided. (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzoyl peroxide and topical products containing salicylic acid on the same area of skin will cause additive irritant and drying effects. Reduction in the dose or temporary discontinuation of the benzoyl peroxide product may be needed until skin irritation resolves.
Tazarotene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tazarotene and dermatologic products containing benzoyl peroxide should be avoided. The manufacturer suggests that a patient's skin rest until the effects of such preparations subside before using tazarotene. When used together as part of acne therapy, these medications should be used separately at different times of the day to minimize skin irritation, unless directed otherwise by the prescriber. If skin irritation occurs, a decrease in dose or frequency of one or both agents may be necessary.
Tetracaine: (Major) Thoroughly wash skin to ensure complete removal of benzoyl peroxide prior to applying a topical anesthetic, such as tetracaine. Benzoyl peroxide has been observed to significantly reduce the anesthetic effect of topical products likely due to chemical inactivation of the anesthetic.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Moderate) Benzoyl peroxide can potentiate the skin irritation caused by topical tretinoin. Concurrent application of these agents on areas treated with tretinoin should be avoided.
Tretinoin; Benzoyl Peroxide: (Moderate) Benzoyl peroxide can potentiate the skin irritation caused by topical tretinoin. Concurrent application of these agents on areas treated with tretinoin should be avoided.
Trifarotene: (Moderate) Avoid concurrent use of trifarotene with other topical products that may dry or irritate the skin, such as benzoyl peroxide.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with adapalene is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like adapalene may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction. (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with benzoyl peroxide is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like benzoyl peroxide may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

Adapalene; benzoyl peroxide appears to be well tolerated with a side effect profile similar to that of adapalene monotherapy. Treatment with adapalene; benzoyl peroxide was well-tolerated when used for up to 12 months in patients with acne vulgaris.

atopic dermatitis, blepharedema, conjunctivitis, contact dermatitis, erythema, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, skin discoloration, skin hyperpigmentation, skin hypopigmentation, skin irritation, xerosis


Local cutaneous adverse reactions have been reported with the use of adapalene; benzoyl peroxide. The majority of treatment-related adverse effects were mild to moderate in severity. During clinical trials, erythema was reported with the maximum severity during treatment of mild, moderate, or severe in 27%, 13% to 20%, and 1% of patients, respectively. Scaling of the skin was reported with the maximum severity during treatment as mild, moderate, or severe in 35%, 11% to 17%, and 1% of patients, respectively. Skin dryness (xerosis) and stinging/burning were reported with the maximum severity during treatment as mild in 41% of patients. Moderate and severe dryness were reported as the maximum severity during treatment in 13% to 15% and 1% to 2% of patients, respectively, while moderate and severe stinging/burning were reported as the maximum severity during treatment in 14% to 19% and 3% to 9% of patients, respectively. Additional adverse effects reported in clinical trials include atopic dermatitis (1%), contact dermatitis (3%), application site burning (1% to 2%), application site or skin irritation (1% to 4%), and eczema (1%). The severity of these adverse effects peak during the first week of treatment and decrease over time. During a pediatric clinical trial involving patients aged 9 to 11 years, the nature and frequency of adverse events was comparable to that of older patients. Adverse events identified during postmarketing use of the 0.1% adapalene; 2.5% benzoyl peroxide gel include blepharedema (eyelid edema), conjunctivitis, photosensitivity (sunburn), blister, skin pain, pruritus, skin discoloration, rash, eczema, allergic contact dermatitis, facial edema, and throat tightness. During postmarketing use of the 0.3% adapalene; 2.5% benzoyl peroxide gel, cases of sunburn, blister (including vesicles and bullae), pruritus, skin hyperpigmentation, and skin hypopigmentation have been reported. Depending upon the severity of cutaneous adverse reactions, patients should be instructed to use moisturizer, reduce the frequency of application of adapalene; benzoyl peroxide, or discontinue use.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, urticaria


Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, and urticaria, have been reported with the use of benzoyl peroxide-containing products. If a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs, discontinue use of adapalene; benzoyl peroxide immediately and initiate appropriate therapy.


Description

Adapalene; benzoyl peroxide is a topical combination product indicated for the treatment of acne vulgaris. The product is approved in strengths of 0.1% adapalene; 2.5% benzoyl peroxide for patients 9 years and older and 0.3% adapalene; 2.5% benzoyl peroxide for patients 12 years and older. Adapalene is a topical retinoid-like drug. Benzoyl peroxide exhibits antibacterial activity and has drying actions, sebostatic effects, and causes mild skin desquamation. Benzoyl peroxide improves both inflammatory and non-inflammatory acne lesions. Once daily application of adapalene; benzoyl peroxide gel has demonstrated greater efficacy and a faster onset of action than either agent alone. Adapalene; benzoyl peroxide is available as a topical gel and gel pad.

Mechanism Of Action

•adapalene: Adapalene modulates cell differentiation and keratinization. Adapalene also possesses potent antiinflammatory and comedolytic properties.
•benzoyl peroxide: Benzoyl peroxide exhibits antimicrobial effects against Propionibacterium acnes, which is the predominant organism in sebaceous follicles and comedones. Benzoyl peroxide also demonstrates keratolytic activity, which produces drying and desquamative actions and contributes to its efficacy in comedone treatment.

Pharmacokinetics

Adapalene; benzoyl peroxide is administered topically.
Adapalene: The distribution and metabolism of absorbed adapalene is unknown. Excretion appears to be primarily by the biliary route.
Benzoyl peroxide: After absorption, benzoic acid is excreted in the urine.


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Topical Route


Adapalene: Following topical application, absorption through human skin is low. During clinical trials, trace amounts (< 0.25 ng/mL) of the parent compound have been found in the plasma of patients with acne after chronic use.
Benzoyl peroxide: Following topical application, benzoyl peroxide is absorbed through the epidermis. In the skin, benzoyl peroxide is metabolized to benzoic acid. Approximately 5% of the benzoic acid is systemically absorbed.


Administration

For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Topical Administration


For topical use only. Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use.
Wash hands after use as product may bleach hair or colored fabrics.
Avoid concurrent use of other potentially irritating topical products (e.g., medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers, soaps and cosmetics that have strong skin-drying effects, products with high concentrations of alcohol, astringents, spices, or lime).
Do not use waxing as a depilatory method on skin treated with adapalene; benzoyl peroxide.


Other Topical Formulations

Gel
Instruct patients to cleanse the area(s) to be treated with a mild or soapless cleanser, and then pat dry.
Apply a thin layer to the affected area(s) of the face and/or trunk. Do not use more than the recommended amount and do not apply more often than once daily as skin irritation may occur.
Do not apply to skin that is cut or is affected with seborrheic dermatitis, eczema, a skin abrasion, or sunburn.
When applying to the face, use a pea-sized amount to each area of the face (e.g., forehead, chin, each cheek). Avoid eyes, lips, and mucous membranes.
Wash hands after applying the gel.
 
Gel Pad
Instruct patients to cleanse the area(s) to be treated with a mild or soapless cleanser, and then pat dry.
Remove the gel pad from foil and unfold before using.
Apply gel pad to the affected area(s) of the face and/or trunk. Do not use more than the recommended amount and do not apply more often than once daily as skin irritation may occur.
Do not apply to skin that is cut or is affected with seborrheic dermatitis, eczema, a skin abrasion, or sunburn.
Use pad for area of the face (e.g., forehead, chin, each cheek). Avoid eyes, lips, and mucous membranes.
Wash hands after applying the gel.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

1 application per day topically.

Geriatric

1 application per day topically.

Adolescents

1 application per day topically.

Children

12 years: 1 application per day topically.
9 to 11 years: 1 application per day topically for adapalene 0.1%; benzoyl peroxide 2.5%; safety and efficacy have not been established for adapalene 0.3%; benzoyl peroxide 2.5%.
younger than 9 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Adainzoxia Gel 0.3%-2.5%-4% for Compounding

Adapalene 0.1%, Benzoyl Peroxide 2.5% Topical gel

Adapalene 0.1%, Benzoyl Peroxide 2.5% Topical pad, cleanser

Adapalene 0.3% Topical gel, Benzoyl Peroxide 2.5% Topical gel, Clindamycin Phosphate 1% Topical gel with Compounding Gel

Adapalene 0.3%, Benzoyl Peroxide 2.5% Topical gel

Epiduo 0.1%-2.5% Topical Gel

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier