=== Azelaic Acid — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 1201)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Azelaic acid is a topical anti-acne agent.

Routes: topical; Common adult doses: Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) twice daily. The duration of treatment can vary among individuals and depend on the severity of the acne. Improvement occurs in the majority of persons within 4 weeks. Combination therapy is...

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): acne vulgaris, contact dermatitis, edema, erythema, hypertrichosis, paresthesias, pruritus, rash, skin hypopigmentation, skin irritation, xerosis, angioedema, application site reaction, dyspnea, ocular inflammation, urticaria, wheezing

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. dark constitutive skin color There have been isolated reports of hypopigmentation after use of azelaic acid. Since azelaic acid has not been well studied in patients with dark...

AZELAIC ACID

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Azelex, Finacea, Finacea Plus, Finevin

Indication Specific Dosing

The following organisms are generally considered susceptible to azelaic acid in vitro: Propionibacterium acnes, Staphylococcus epidermidis.

For the treatment of mild-to-moderate inflammatory acne vulgaris

Topical dosage (20% cream)
Adults


Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) twice daily. The duration of treatment can vary among individuals and depend on the severity of the acne. Improvement occurs in the majority of persons within 4 weeks. Combination therapy is recommended.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) twice daily. The duration of treatment can vary among individuals and depend on the severity of the acne. Improvement occurs in the majority of persons within 4 weeks. Combination therapy is recommended.


For the treatment of the inflammatory lesions of mild-to-moderate acne rosacea

Topical dosage (15% gel or foam)
Adults


Apply a thin layer topically to the entire face (i.e., forehead, chin, nose, and each cheek) twice daily. Reassess the diagnosis if no improvement occurs after 12 weeks of treatment.


For the treatment of melasma†

Topical dosage (20% cream)
Adults


Limited clinical data exist on the use of azelaic acid in treating melasma. Several studies suggest that azelaic acid 20% cream applied in a thin film to the affected area twice daily in combination with a broad spectrum sunscreen was either more effective than or equally effective as hydroquinone 2% or 4%, respectively.


For the treatment of lentigo maligna† in which surgery is contraindicated

Topical dosage (cream or ointment 15—35%)
Adults


Application of azelaic acid cream or ointment (15% to 35%) 2 to 4 times per day for 3 to 16 months was used in preliminary uncontrolled studies of lentigo maligna. Response rates were variable with complete resolution in 27 patients (n = 50) in one study to only partial improvement in 2 patients (n = 15) in another study. Since surgery is the primary treatment modality for lentigo maligna it has been suggested that azelaic acid be limited to treating lentigo maligna in patients who are not candidates for surgery.


For the treatment of cutaneous malignant melanoma†

Topical and Oral† dosage
Adults


In a preliminary uncontrolled study of patients (n = 23) with cutaneous malignant melanoma, oral therapy (10 to 15 g/day) was combined with topical therapy (15% cream applied twice daily) for 2 to 12 weeks prior to surgical excision. Beneficial clinical effects were noted in all patients and included a progressive reduction in the intensity of lesion pigmentation, arrest and subsequent regression of the advancing edge of the lesion, and flattening of nodular areas. Six patients with single local lesions had clinical remission after approximately 10 years of follow-up. Oral doses of up to 4,000 mg/kg have been administered with no apparent toxicity.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

dark constitutive skin color


There have been isolated reports of hypopigmentation after use of azelaic acid. Since azelaic acid has not been well studied in patients with dark constitutive skin color, monitor these patients for early signs of hypopigmentation.


pregnancy


Azelaic acid is minimally absorbed following topical administration; use during pregnancy is not expected to result in fetal exposure. Dermal embryo-fetal developmental toxicology studies have not been performed. However, embryo-fetal toxicity was noted when azelaic acid was administered orally during organogenesis at doses 162, 19, and 65 times the maximum recommended human dose in rats, rabbits, and monkeys, respectively. No malformations were observed.


breast-feeding


Azelaic acid is compatible with breast-feeding. Azelaic acid is a naturally occurring component of human milk. When used as directed, systemic absorption after topical application is minimal and is unlikely to alter milk concentrations or affect milk production. Clinically relevant exposure in the breastfed infant is not expected.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Azelaic acid is minimally absorbed following topical administration; use during pregnancy is not expected to result in fetal exposure. Dermal embryo-fetal developmental toxicology studies have not been performed. However, embryo-fetal toxicity was noted when azelaic acid was administered orally during organogenesis at doses 162, 19, and 65 times the maximum recommended human dose in rats, rabbits, and monkeys, respectively. No malformations were observed.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Azelaic Acid products.

Adverse Reaction
acne vulgaris, contact dermatitis, edema, erythema, hypertrichosis, paresthesias, pruritus, rash, skin hypopigmentation, skin irritation, xerosis


Most side effects occurring with the use of azelaic acid are mild dermatologic adverse reactions. These effects include burning sensation or stinging (1% to 16%), paresthesias or tingling (1% to 6.2%), pruritus (1% to 6%), xerosis (dry skin, up to 5%), erythema (up to 2%), skin irritation (less than 2%), contact dermatitis (up to 1%), edema (up to 1%), acne vulgaris (up to 1%), rash (less than 1%), and peeling (less than 1%). In patients with dark complexions, skin hypopigmentation may occur. The following additional adverse reactions have rarely been reported: vitiligo, depigmentation, small depigmented spots, hypertrichosis, reddening (signs of keratosis pilaris), and exacerbation of recurrent herpes viral infection (i.e., herpes labialis).


angioedema, application site reaction, dyspnea, ocular inflammation, urticaria, wheezing


Postmarketing use of azelaic acid has been associated with an application site reaction (i.e., rash), development of hypersensitivity reactions (including angioedema, ocular inflammation, facial swelling, and urticaria) and asthma exacerbation (i.e., dyspnea, wheezing). In addition, cases of iridocyclitis, or inflammation of the iris, have been noted following accidental exposure of the eye to the topical gel. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


Description

Azelaic acid is a topical anti-acne agent. Azelaic acid is a naturally occurring dietary constituent (whole grain and animal products) and can be formed endogenously from longer-chain dicarboxylic acids, metabolism of oleic acid, and omega-oxidation of monocarboxylic acids. Azelaic acid is used as a treatment for acne vulgaris and is one of the leading treatments for this condition in Europe where it has been marketed as a 20% cream since 1989 by Schering. The drug is also effective for reducing the number of inflammatory pustules and papules associated with rosacea. Reduction in erythema may occur; however, efficacy has not been established for erythema associated with rosacea without papules and pustules. Azelaic acid has been administered orally and intravenously; however, only a topical formulation is marketed in the United States. The drug was originally FDA approved as a 20% cream for the treatment of acne vulgaris in September 1995; several brand name creams are now available. A 15% topical gel and foam were FDA-approved for the treatment of rosacea in December 2002 and July 2015, respectively.

Mechanism Of Action

The efficacy of azelaic acid in acne vulgaris is due to an antimicrobial effect and an antikeratinizing effect on the follicular epidermis. The antimicrobial effects of azelaic acid involves inhibition of synthesis of microbial cellular proteins; the exact mechanism of action is unknown. Azelaic acid possesses bacteriostatic properties against a variety of aerobic microorganisms, especially Staphylococcus epidermidis and Propionibacterium acnes which are known to be elevated in acne-bearing skin; at high concentrations, azelaic acid is bactericidal against S. epidermidis and P. acnes. By reducing the concentration of bacteria present on the skin, azelaic acid decreases the inflammation associated with acne lesions. Azelaic acid may also possess a direct antiinflammatory effect by scavenging oxygen radicals. The antikeratinizing effects of azelaic acid may be due to decreased synthesis of filaggrin (keratin filament aggregating protein). By inhibiting filaggrin, azelaic acid may normalize the keratinization of the follicle and produce a reduction in noninflamed acne lesions. Azelaic acid does not affect sebum excretion.
 
The mechanism of action that results in the efficacy of azelaic acid in acne rosacea is not clear; clinical studies suggest interference with the pathogenic effects in rosacea. Anti-inflammatory effects have been noted in vitro.
 
The antiproliferative and cytotoxic actions of azelaic acid may be due to reversible inhibition of a variety of oxidoreductive enzymes including DNA polymerase, tyrosinase, and mitochondrial enzymes of the respiratory chain. At the cellular level, azelaic acid causes mitochondrial swelling and accumulation of cytoplasmic lipid droplets. Azelaic acid has shown efficacy in treating such conditions as lentigo maligna, cutaneous malignant melanoma, and melasma (chloasma). When azelaic acid is applied topically in these conditions, there is a reduction in epidermal melanogenesis and replacement of abnormal melanocytes by normal cells; flattening of nodular areas may also occur. Hyperactive and malignant melanocytes are much more susceptible to the effects of azelaic acid than are normal melanocytes.

Pharmacokinetics

Azelaic acid is applied topically to the skin. Azelaic acid is mainly excreted unchanged in the urine but does undergo some beta-oxidation to shorter chain dicarboxylic acids. Plasma concentrations and daily urinary excretion of azelaic acid are highly dependent on dietary intake.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The observed half-lives in healthy subjects are approximately 45 minutes after oral dosing, indicating percutaneous absorption rate-limited kinetics.

Topical Route

Following a single application to human skin in vitro, the drug penetrates into the stratum corneum (approximately 3—5% of the applied dose) and other viable skin layers (up to 10% of the dose is found in the epidermis and dermis). Approximately 4% of the topically applied dose is absorbed systemically. Negligible cutaneous metabolism occurs after topical administration. The observed half-lives in healthy subjects are approximately 12 hours after topical dosing, indicating percutaneous absorption rate-limited kinetics. Following topical administration, plasma concentrations and urinary excretion of azelaic acid are not significantly different from baseline levels.

Administration

For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Topical Administration


Before applying, the affected areas should be thoroughly washed (using mild soap or soapless cleansing lotion) and patted dry.
Do not apply to the eye; avoid contact with the mouth, eyes, and other mucous membranes. If contact with the eye(s) occur, the eye(s) should be washed with large amounts of water; contact prescriber if ocular irritation persists.
Occlusive dressings or wrappings should not be used.
Wash hands immediately after applying.


Cream/Ointment/Lotion Formulations


Apply cream and massage gently into the affected areas.


Other Topical Formulations

Gel Formulation
Apply gel and massage gently into the affected areas
Cosmetics may be applied after gel has dried.
Instruct patients to avoid use of alcoholic cleansers, tinctures and astringents, abrasives and peeling agents.
 
Foam Formulation
Shake well before use.
Dispense the smallest amount of foam required to cover the area to be treated (entire face) with a thin layer.
Instruct patient to avoid flame, fire, or smoking during an immediately after application. The propellant in the foam is flammable. Do not puncture or incinerate the container.
Cosmetics may be applied after foam has dried.
Instruct patients to avoid use of alcoholic cleansers, tinctures and astringents, abrasives and peeling agents.
This product is flammable; avoid heat, flame, or smoking during and immediately following application of the foam.


Maximum Dosage Limits

No maximum dosage information is available.

Dosage Forms

Acioxiay Cream 15%-4% for Compounding

Azelaic Acid 15% Topical gel

Azelaic Acid Bulk powder

Azelex 20% Topical Cream

Finacea 15% Topical Foam

Finacea 15% Topical Gel

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier