=== Macimorelin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5006)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 0.5 mg/kg PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dysgeusia, bradycardia, dizziness, fatigue, headache, hyperhidrosis, infection, pharyngitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. Use a needleless syringe with graduations in mL to measure the exact volume of solution to be administered. Transfer the required volume of solution into a drinking glass.

Brand Names
  - Macrilen

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.5 mg/kg/dose PO as a single dose.
    Heading
    For growth hormone deficiency diagnosis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Growth hormone secretion normally decreases with age; therefore, a lower threshold point may be required when diagnosing growth hormone deficiency in the geriatric population. Clinical trials did not include a sufficient number of patients age 65 years and older to determine whether elderly patients respond to macimorelin differently from younger subjects. Geriatric patients may also be at increased risk for developing a prolonged QT interval with macimorelin use.
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Laboratory test interference may occur if macimorelin is administered in the presence of strong CYP3A4 inducers or drugs affecting growth hormone (GH) release. Discontinue these medications and allow a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Concomitant use of macimorelin and a strong CYP3A4 inducer may result in a false positive test result; strong CYP3A4 inducers can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations. Drugs that affect GH release may impact macimorelin test accuracy by directly affecting secretion of GH by the pituitary, transiently elevating GH concentrations, or by blunting the GH response to macimorelin. Additionally, GH deficiency due to a hypothalamic lesion may not be detected early in the disease process. Macimorelin acts downstream from the hypothalamus, and macimorelin-stimulated release of stored GH reserves from the anterior pituitary could produce a false negative result. Repeat testing may be needed in this situation.
    Headline
    apheresis, AV block, bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, celiac disease, females, fever, heart failure, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, hyperparathyroidism, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypothermia, hypothyroidism, long QT syndrome, myocardial infarction, pheochromocytoma, QT prolongation, rheumatoid arthritis, sickle cell disease, sleep deprivation, stroke, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)
    General Information
    Macimorelin causes an increase of about 11 milliseconds in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin and other drugs known to cause QT prolongation. Use macimorelin with caution in patients with conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation including congenital long QT syndrome, bradycardia, AV block, heart failure, stress-related cardiomyopathy, myocardial infarction, stroke, hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, or in patients receiving medications known to prolong the QT interval or cause electrolyte imbalances. Females, people 65 years and older, patients with sleep deprivation, pheochromocytoma, sickle cell disease, hypothyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, hypothermia, systemic inflammation (e.g., human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, fever, and some autoimmune diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and celiac disease) and patients undergoing apheresis procedures (e.g., plasmapheresis [plasma exchange], cytapheresis) may also be at increased risk for QT prolongation.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    No data are available with macimorelin use during human pregnancy to inform a drug associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes. Macimorelin is indicated as a single dose which limits the risk of adverse developmental outcomes from macimorelin. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of macimorelin in human or animal milk, the effects on the breast-fed infant, or the effects on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for macimorelin and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed infant from macimorelin or the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    No data are available with macimorelin use during human pregnancy to inform a drug associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes. Macimorelin is indicated as a single dose which limits the risk of adverse developmental outcomes from macimorelin. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of macimorelin in human or animal milk, the effects on the breast-fed infant, or the effects on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for macimorelin and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed infant from macimorelin or the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as alfuzosin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as amisulpride. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as clarithromycin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Anagrelide: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as anagrelide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy.
Anticholinergics: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Antithyroid agents: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antithyroid agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue antithyroid therapy at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Apalutamide: (Major) Discontinue apalutamide and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Apomorphine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as apomorphine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the QTc interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as aripiprazole. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Armodafinil: (Major) Discontinue armodafinil and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as arsenic trioxide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP), QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as artemether; lumefantrine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Artemether is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as lumefantrine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as asenapine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Asenapine has been also associated with QT prolongation.
Aspirin, ASA: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as atomoxetine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of atomoxetine and following overdose.
Atropine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with macimorelin due to the increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval.
Beclomethasone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as bedaquiline. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Bedaquiline has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test. (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Benztropine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Betamethasone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test. (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bosentan: (Major) Discontinue bosentan and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. Drug interaction studies involving macimorelin have not been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and bosentan is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Budesonide: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test. (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as buprenorphine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Buprenorphine has also been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as buprenorphine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Buprenorphine has also been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as rilpivirine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Discontinue carbamazepine and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of macimorelin and levodopa. Consider allowing at least 12 hours, or 5 medication half-lives, to elapse after levodopa administration before using macimorelin. Levodopa may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations and interfere with macimorelin test results.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of macimorelin and levodopa. Consider allowing at least 12 hours, or 5 medication half-lives, to elapse after levodopa administration before using macimorelin. Levodopa may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations and interfere with macimorelin test results.
Celecoxib: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as ceritinib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of ceritinib prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been reported with ceritinib.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with macimorelin due to the increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Allow a sufficient washout period before starting macimorelin. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as chlorpromazine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Ciclesonide: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of macimorelin with cisapride is contraindicated. Before administering macimorelin, discontinue use of cisapride and allow a sufficient washout period to pass.
Citalopram: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as citalopram. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Citalopram causes dose-dependent QT interval prolongation.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as clarithromycin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloNIDine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations, such as clonidine. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue clonidine therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
cloZAPine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as clozapine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Corticosteroids: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Cortisone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as crizotinib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation.
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as dasatinib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Deflazacort: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Degarelix: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as degarelix. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Desflurane: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as deutetrabenazine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexAMETHasone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as quinidine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Diclofenac: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Dicyclomine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Diflunisal: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Disopyramide: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as disopyramide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Dofetilide: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as dofetilide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as rilpivirine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as donepezil. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as donepezil. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for TdP, use of macimorelin with dronedarone is contraindicated. Before administering macimorelin, discontinue use of dronedarone and allow a sufficient washout period to pass. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as droperidol. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal.
Efavirenz: (Major) Discontinue efavirenz and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering the macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer. In addition, use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Discontinue efavirenz and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering the macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer. In addition, use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Discontinue efavirenz and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering the macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer. In addition, use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as eliglustat. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as rilpivirine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as rilpivirine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Encorafenib: (Major) Discontinue encorafenib and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Macimorelin is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macimorelin with entrectinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Discontinue enzalutamide and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
eriBULin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as eribulin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as erythromycin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Erythromycin is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Escitalopram: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as escitalopram. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Escitalopram has been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Etodolac: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Discontinue etravirine and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and etravirine is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Fenoprofen: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as fingolimod. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
flavoxATE: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Flecainide: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as flecainide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP); flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs that have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as fluconazole. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Fludrocortisone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Flunisolide: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as fluoxetine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Use of fluphenazine with macimorelin may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Fluticasone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as fluvoxamine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported during fluvoxamine postmarketing use.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of macimorelin and levodopa. Consider allowing at least 12 hours, or 5 medication half-lives, to elapse after levodopa administration before using macimorelin. Levodopa may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations and interfere with macimorelin test results.
Foscarnet: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as foscarnet. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported during postmarketing use of foscarnet.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Discontinue fosphenytoin and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and phenytoin (the active metabolite of fosphenytoin) is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as fostemsavir. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as gemifloxacin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as gemtuzumab. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of macimorelin with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with glasdegib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of glasdegib prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Goserelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as goserelin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as granisetron. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as haloperidol. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as histrelin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Hydrocortisone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macimorelin and hydroxychloroquine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Hydroxychloroquine prolongs the QT interval.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as hydroxyzine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Postmarketing data indicate that hydroxyzine causes QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Hyoscyamine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test. (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Ibutilide: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as ibutilide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as iloperidone. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation.
Indomethacin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as inotuzumab. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation.
Insulin Aspart: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulin Degludec: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulin Detemir: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulin Glargine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulin Glulisine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulin Icodec: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulin Lispro: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Insulins: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Isoflurane: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as itraconazole. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as ivosidenib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and macimorelin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Ketoprofen: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Ketorolac: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as clarithromycin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with lapatinib due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval, such as lapatinib, prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Lapatinib has also been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as macimorelin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as lenvatinib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation was also reported during clinical trials of lenvatinib.
Leuprolide: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as leuprolide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Levodopa: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of macimorelin and levodopa. Consider allowing at least 12 hours, or 5 medication half-lives, to elapse after levodopa administration before using macimorelin. Levodopa may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations and interfere with macimorelin test results.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and macimorelin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lithium: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as lithium. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Lithium has been associated with QT prolongation.
Lofexidine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as lofexidine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval.
Lonapegsomatropin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion and may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as somatropin (recombinant rhGH). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue growth hormone therapy at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Loperamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as loperamide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as loperamide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with macimorelin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Discontinue lumacaftor; ivacaftor and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. Drug interaction studies involving macimorelin have not been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In a drug interaction study, concurrent administration of lumacaftor with a sensitive CYP3A substrate decreased exposure of that substrate by 80%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Discontinue lumacaftor; ivacaftor and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. Drug interaction studies involving macimorelin have not been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In a drug interaction study, concurrent administration of lumacaftor with a sensitive CYP3A substrate decreased exposure of that substrate by 80%.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Mefloquine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as mefloquine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. However, due to the lack of clinical data, mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Meloxicam: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Methadone: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as methadone. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (greater than 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
methIMAzole: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antithyroid agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue antithyroid therapy at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Methscopolamine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
methylPREDNISolone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as midostaurin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation was also reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of macimorelin and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of macimorelin and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Discontinue mitotane and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Modafinil: (Major) Discontinue modafinil and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and modafinil is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Mometasone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as moxifloxacin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Quinolones have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory.
Nabumetone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Naproxen: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as nilotinib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Nilotinib also prolongs the QT interval.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as olanzapine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as fluoxetine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as olanzapine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as olanzapine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as osilodrostat. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as osimertinib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as oxaliplatin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Oxaprozin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
oxyBUTYnin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Ozanimod: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as ozanimod. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with torsade de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as paliperidone. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing QT prolongation or torsade de pointes (TdP). Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; TdP and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose.
Panobinostat: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as panobinostat. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat.
Pasireotide: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as pasireotide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as pazopanib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Pazopanib has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Pentamidine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as pentamidine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Systemic pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Concurrent use of macimorelin and perphenazine may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Concurrent use of macimorelin and perphenazine may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Discontinue phenobarbital and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. Drug interaction studies involving macimorelin have not been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and phenobarbital is a CYP3A4 inducer.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test. (Major) Discontinue phenobarbital and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. Drug interaction studies involving macimorelin have not been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and phenobarbital is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Phenytoin: (Major) Discontinue phenytoin and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as pimavanserin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for TdP, use of macimorelin with pimozide is contraindicated. Before administering macimorelin, discontinue use of pimozide and allow a sufficient washout period to pass. Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval.
Piroxicam: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as pitolisant. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as ponesimod. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with torsade de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as posaconazole. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes.
prednisoLONE: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
predniSONE: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Discontinue primidone and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. Drug interaction studies involving macimorelin have not been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and primidone is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Procainamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as procainamide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Concurrent use of macimorelin and prochlorperazine may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propylthiouracil, PTU: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antithyroid agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue antithyroid therapy at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as quinidine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as quinine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as ranolazine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Regular Insulin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as relugolix. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as relugolix. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as ribociclib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as ribociclib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption.
rifAMPin: (Major) Discontinue rifampin and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Discontinue rifapentine and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as rilpivirine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as risperidone. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. Reports of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes during risperidone therapy are noted by the manufacturer, primarily in the overdosage setting.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as romidepsin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Rufinamide: (Major) Discontinue rufinamide and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and rufinamide is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Salicylates: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Salsalate: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as saquinavir. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP).
Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as selpercatinib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as siponimod. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of siponimod prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study.
Solifenacin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as solifenacin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality was not determined.
Somatropin, rh-GH: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion and may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as somatropin (recombinant rhGH). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue growth hormone therapy at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as sorafenib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Sorafenib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Discontinue St. John's Wort, Hypericum and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Sulindac: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as sunitinib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as tacrolimus. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Tacrolimus causes QT prolongation.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as tamoxifen. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Tamoxifen has been reported to prolong the QT interval, usually in overdose or when used in high doses. Rare case reports of QT prolongation have also been described when tamoxifen is used at lower doses.
Telavancin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as telavancin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as tetrabenazine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Tetrabenazine also causes a small increase in the QTc.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for TdP, use of macimorelin with thioridazine is contraindicated. Discontinue use of thioridazine and allow a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is considered contraindicated for use along with agents that may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of TdP, or cause orthostatic hypotension. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval.
Tolmetin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue NSAID therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Tolterodine: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as tolterodine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as toremifene. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triamcinolone: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as corticosteroids. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue corticosteroid therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Concurrent use of macimorelin and trifluoperazine may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Concurrent use of macimorelin and perphenazine may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Triptorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as triptorelin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as vandetanib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP)-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Vandetanib can also prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as vemurafenib. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of macimorelin and voclosporin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Allow a sufficient washout of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation with supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as clarithromycin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as voriconazole. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Voriconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes.
Vorinostat: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as vorinostat. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as ziprasidone. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
    Headline
    diarrhea, dysgeusia, nausea
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported by macimorelin recipients during an open-label study (n = 154) included dysgeusia (4.5%), nausea (3.2%), feeling of hunger (3.2%), and diarrhea (1.9%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bradycardia, dizziness, fatigue, headache, hyperhidrosis, infection, pharyngitis
    General Information
    Dizziness, headache, and fatigue were each reported by 3.9% of patients receiving macimorelin during an open-label study (n = 154). Other adverse reactions that were not present at baseline and occurred in at least 2 macimorelin recipients included upper respiratory tract infection (1.9%), feeling hot (1.3%), hyperhidrosis (1.3%), naso-pharyngitis (1.3%), and sinus bradycardia (1.3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Macimorelin is an oral growth hormone secretagogue receptor agonist indicated for the diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency in adults. The safety and diagnostic performance of macimorelin has not been established in obese patients (BMI more than 40 kg/m2). Patients must fast for at least 8 hours and any deficiency in sex hormone, thyroid hormone, or glucocorticoids must be corrected prior to macimorelin administration. Certain medications may interfere with the test results; discontinue these medications and allow a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Macimorelin is a synthetic growth hormone (GH) secretagogue receptor agonist that stimulates GH release by activating receptors present in the pituitary and hypothalamus. GH concentrations are observed between 30 and 90 minutes after macimorelin administration; a maximally stimulated serum GH concentration of less than 2.8 ng/mL confirms adult GH deficiency.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Maximum plasma macimorelin concentrations (Cmax) were observed between 30 and 90 minutes after administration of 0.5 mg/kg in patients under fasting conditions for at least 8 hours. Administration of macimorelin with a liquid meal decreased Cmax and exposure (AUC) by 55% and 49%, respectively.
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Macimorelin is administered orally. An in vitro human liver microsomes study showed that macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. The mean terminal half-life of macimorelin is 4.1 hours after a single oral dose of 0.5 mg/kg.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Macimorelin is a CYP3A4 substrate.

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
NOTE: Prior to macimorelin administration, ensure the patient has fasted for at least 8 hours; any deficiencies in sex hormone, thyroid hormone, or glucocorticoids have been adequately replaced; growth hormone (GH) therapy has been discontinued for at least 1 week; and strong CYP3A4 inducers have been discontinued.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Reconstitution
Each dose must be prepared and administered by a health care professional.
Weigh the patient in kg to determine the number of pouches needed to prepare the dose.
For patients weighing 120 kg or less, use 1 pouch.
For patients weighing more than 120 kg, use 2 pouches.
Using a glass or transparent plastic container with graduations in mL, dissolve the entire contents of the pouch(es) in the appropriate volume of water to achieve a final concentration of 0.5 mg/mL.
For 1 pouch, dissolve contents (i.e., 60 mg) in 120 mL of water.
For 2 pouches, dissolve contents (i.e., 120 mg) in 240 mL of water.
Gently stir solution for 2 to 3 minutes; a small amount of undissolved particles will remain.
Administer the solution within 30 minutes of reconstitution
Storage: Discard any unused solution.
 
Administration
Use a needleless syringe with graduations in mL to measure the exact volume of solution to be administered. Transfer the required volume of solution into a drinking glass.
Instruct patient to drink the entire volume of solution from the drinking glass within 30 seconds.
Observe the patient per routine for duration of testing process.
Draw venous blood samples for growth hormone (GH) determination at 30, 45, 60, and 90 minutes after administration; a maximally stimulated serum GH concentration of less than 2.8 ng/mL after macimorelin administration confirms adult growth hormone deficiency.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mg/kg PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mg/kg PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
