=== Asciminib — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5365)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Asciminib is a BCR-ABL1 inhibitor specifically targeting the ABL myristoyl pocket (STAMP).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 80 mg/day PO for previously treated chronic phase Ph+ CML; 400 mg/day PO for chronic phase Ph+ CML with the T315I mutation.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, heart failure, palpitations, qt prolongation, stroke, thromboembolism, thrombosis, infection, influenza, pharyngitis, rhinitis, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, dizziness, headache, migraine, peripheral neuropathy, acneiform rash, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pancreatitis Use asciminib with caution in patients with a history of pancreatitis. Pancreatic toxicity and elevations in serum lipase and amylase have been reported with asciminib...

ASCIMINIB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

SCEMBLIX

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)

For the treatment of chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML (Ph+ CML) with the T315I mutation
Oral dosage
Adults


200 mg orally twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart) until loss of response (treatment failure) or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, a dosage reduction, or permanent discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop toxicity. A major molecular response (MMR) by week 24 was achieved in 42% of patients with chronic phase Ph+ CML with a T315I mutation (n = 45) who received asciminib in a phase 1 trial (CABL001X2101 trial). Additionally, 49% of patients achieved a MMR by week 96. The median duration of treatment was 108 (range, 2 to 215) weeks.


For the treatment of previously treated chronic phase Ph+ CML
Oral dosage
Adults


80 mg orally once daily OR 40 mg orally twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart) until loss of response (treatment failure) or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, a dosage reduction, or permanent discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop toxicity. A major molecular response (MMR) by week 24 was achieved in 25.5% of patients with chronic phase Ph+ CML resistant or intolerant to 2 or more tyrosine kinase inhibitors who received asciminib 40 mg PO twice daily (n = 157) compared with 13.2% of patients who received bosutinib 500 mg PO once daily (n = 76) in a randomized (2:1) phase 3 trial (ASCEMBL trial). The 24-week MMR risk difference significantly favored asciminib treatment (12.3%; 95% CI, 2.1% to 22.5%); the odds ratio also favored asciminib (OR = 2.38; 95% CI, 1.06 to 5.35) in a multivariate analysis. At a median follow-up time of 2.3 years, the MMR rate continued to be significantly higher at week 96 in patients who received asciminib compared with bosutinib (37.6% vs. 15.8%; risk difference, 21.74%; 95% CI, 10.53 to 32.95; p = 0.001) in the ASCEMBL trial. The median duration of asciminib treatment was 23.7 (range, 0 to 46.2) months.


For the treatment of newly diagnosed chronic phase Ph+ CML
Oral dosage
Adults


80 mg orally once daily OR 40 mg orally twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart) until loss of response or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, a dosage reduction, or permanent discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop toxicity. The major molecular response (MMR) rate was 68% at week 48 and 74% at week 96 in patients with newly diagnosed chronic phase Ph+ CML treated with asciminib compared with 49% and 52% of patients who received investigator-selected tyrosine kinase inhibitors (IS-TKIs) (imatinib, nilotinib, dasatinib, or bosutinib) in a randomized clinical trial (ASC4FIRST). Within the imatinib stratum, the MMR rate was 69% at week 48 and 76% at week 96 in the asciminib arm compared with 40% and 47% in the IS-TKIs arm. The median time to MMR in patients receiving asciminib, IS-TKIs, and IS-TKIs within the imatinib stratum was 24 weeks, 36 weeks, and 49 weeks, respectively.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pancreatitis


Use asciminib with caution in patients with a history of pancreatitis. Pancreatic toxicity and elevations in serum lipase and amylase have been reported with asciminib therapy. Therapy interruption, a dosage adjustment, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop elevated pancreatic enzymes.


cardiovascular disease


Use asciminib with caution in patients with cardiovascular disease; these patients may be at an increased risk for developing cardiovascular toxicity. Cardiovascular toxicity (e.g., ischemic cardiac and central nervous system conditions, arterial thrombotic and embolic conditions, cardiac arrhythmias, heart failure) has been reported with asciminib therapy. Therapy interruption, a dosage adjustment, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe cardiovascular toxicity.


pregnancy


Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action, asciminib may cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy. There are no human data to evaluate a drug-associated risk. In animal studies, oral administration of asciminib during organogenesis was associated with structural abnormalities, embryo-fetal toxicity, and growth alterations.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with asciminib. Based on animal studies and its mechanism of action, asciminib may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking asciminib and for 1 week after the last dose. Based on animal studies, female infertility may occur. It is not known whether these effects are reversible.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding during asciminib treatment and for 1 week after the last dose because of the potential for serious adverse effects in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of asciminib or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed child, or the effects on milk production.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action, asciminib may cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy. There are no human data to evaluate a drug-associated risk. In animal studies, oral administration of asciminib during organogenesis was associated with structural abnormalities, embryo-fetal toxicity, and growth alterations.


Interactions

Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. If asciminib is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with asciminib may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with asciminib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of asciminib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If asciminib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. If asciminib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If asciminib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with adagrasib is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of asciminib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of asciminib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. If asciminib is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If asciminib is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with asciminib due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and asciminib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with asciminib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; asciminib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for celecoxib-related adverse effects and consider a celecoxib dosage reduction as appropriate based on response if concomitant use with asciminib 200 mg twice daily is necessary. Concomitant use may increase celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor increased celecoxib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with clarithromycin is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with clarithromycin increased asciminib exposure by 36%.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of asciminib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus asciminib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with asciminib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of asciminib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. If asciminib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If asciminib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with atazanavir is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with atazanavir is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with cobicistat is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; asciminib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If asciminib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and asciminib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in bosentan-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase bosentan exposure. Administration of bosentan with both asciminib 200 mg twice daily and a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor is not recommended. Bosentan is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; asciminib is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor at a dose of 200 mg twice daily, and a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor at doses less than 200 mg twice daily.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and asciminib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when asciminib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping asciminib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If asciminib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and asciminib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and asciminib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when asciminib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping asciminib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If asciminib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and asciminib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with asciminib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of asciminib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with asciminib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of asciminib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased asciminib efficacy and an increase in carbamazepine-related adverse effects during concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure and increase carbamazepine exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and CYP3A inhibitor and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of bradycardia or heart block if coadministration of carvedilol with asciminib 200 mg twice daily is necessary. Carvedilol is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use may enhance the beta-blocking properties of carvedilol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. An interaction is not expected with asciminib doses less than 200 mg twice daily.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for celecoxib-related adverse effects and consider a celecoxib dosage reduction as appropriate based on response if concomitant use with asciminib 200 mg twice daily is necessary. Concomitant use may increase celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor increased celecoxib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of asciminib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. (Moderate) Monitor for celecoxib-related adverse effects and consider a celecoxib dosage reduction as appropriate based on response if concomitant use with asciminib 200 mg twice daily is necessary. Concomitant use may increase celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor increased celecoxib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with ceritinib is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with chloramphenicol is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with asciminib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of asciminib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If asciminib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and asciminib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with clarithromycin is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with clarithromycin increased asciminib exposure by 36%.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with asciminib and monitor for adverse reactions. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A. Asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with cobicistat is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with asciminib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of asciminib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with asciminib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of asciminib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with asciminib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of asciminib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with asciminib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of asciminib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with asciminib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of asciminib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with asciminib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of asciminib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If asciminib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Asciminib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and asciminib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with darunavir is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with cobicistat is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with darunavir is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with cobicistat is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with darunavir is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and asciminib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Deuruxolitinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of deuruxolitinib and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is contraindicated due to the risk for increased deuruxolitinib exposure which may increase the risk for deuruxolitinib-related adverse reactions, such as thrombosis. Deuruxolitinib is a CYP2C9 substrate; asciminib 200 mg bid is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diclofenac-related adverse effects if concomitant use with asciminib is necessary; a diclofenac dosage decrease may be required based on response. Concomitant use may increase diclofenac exposure. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diclofenac-related adverse effects if concomitant use with asciminib is necessary; a diclofenac dosage decrease may be required based on response. Concomitant use may increase diclofenac exposure. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing asciminib. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with asciminib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asciminib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asciminib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence) of dronabinol if coadministered with asciminib 200 mg twice daily. Coadministration may increase the exposure of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 substrate; asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. An interaction is not expected with asciminib doses less than 200 mg twice daily.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with asciminib. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of asciminib. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of asciminib; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with asciminib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with asciminib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of eliglustat and asciminib is not recommended in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with cobicistat is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and asciminib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with cobicistat is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with asciminib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and asciminib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with asciminib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and asciminib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with asciminib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and encorafenib. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with asciminib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for asciminib-related adverse effects in patients who are receiving asciminib 200 mg twice daily if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased asciminib overall exposure by 36%.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and enzalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and asciminib 200 mg bid due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg bid is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in etravirine-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily is necessary. Etravirine is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. An interaction is not expected with asciminib doses less than 200 mg twice daily.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and asciminib should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Minor) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. If asciminib is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If asciminib is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or asciminib; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors, including asciminib, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use during asciminib treatment. Concomitant use may alter the exposure of some cannabinoids and increase the risk for adverse reactions. The cannabinoid delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are CYP2C9 substrates and asciminib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased asciminib efficacy and an increase in phenytoin-related adverse effects during concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure and increase phenytoin exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and CYP2C9 inhibitor and phenytoin is a CYP2C9 substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glecaprevir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glecaprevir exposure. Glecaprevir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; asciminib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glimepiride-related adverse reactions, such as hypoglycemia, if coadministration with asciminib 200 mg twice daily is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glimepiride exposure. Glimepiride is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. An interaction is not expected with asciminib doses less than 200 mg twice daily.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glipizide-related adverse reactions, such as hypoglycemia, if coadministration with asciminib 200 mg twice daily is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glipizide exposure. Glipizide is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. An interaction is not expected with asciminib doses less than 200 mg twice daily.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glipizide-related adverse reactions, such as hypoglycemia, if coadministration with asciminib 200 mg twice daily is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glipizide exposure. Glipizide is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. An interaction is not expected with asciminib doses less than 200 mg twice daily.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glyburide-related adverse reactions, such as hypoglycemia, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glyburide exposure. Glyburide is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glyburide-related adverse reactions, such as hypoglycemia, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glyburide exposure. Glyburide is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If asciminib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If asciminib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If asciminib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with idelalisib is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of asciminib with itraconazole oral solution containing hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin as asciminib exposure may decrease which may reduce its efficacy; an interaction is not expected with other formulations of itraconazole. Coadministration of multiple doses of itraconazole oral solution containing hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin with a single 40-mg asciminib dose decreased asciminib exposure by 40%.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with ketoconazole is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with asciminib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with clarithromycin is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with clarithromycin increased asciminib exposure by 36%.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asciminib with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; asciminib may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with asciminib as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with ketoconazole is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with asciminib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with asciminib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with asciminib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and asciminib; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for adverse reactions. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing asciminib. Additionally, closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if using asciminib 200 mg twice daily with lonafarnib as asciminib exposure may increase. Lonafarnib is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor; asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and CYP2C9 and CYP3A inhibitor.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with ritonavir is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Losartan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure during coadministration of losartan and asciminib at doses greater than or equal to 200 mg BID; adjust the dose of losartan as clinically appropriate. Concomitant use may decrease exposure to the active metabolite of losartan and decrease losartan efficacy. Losartan is a CYP2C9 substrate; asciminib at doses greater than or equal to 200 mg BID is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor in two pharmacokinetic studies with healthy volunteers decreased concentrations of the active metabolite of losartan by 30% to 56%.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure during coadministration of losartan and asciminib at doses greater than or equal to 200 mg BID; adjust the dose of losartan as clinically appropriate. Concomitant use may decrease exposure to the active metabolite of losartan and decrease losartan efficacy. Losartan is a CYP2C9 substrate; asciminib at doses greater than or equal to 200 mg BID is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor in two pharmacokinetic studies with healthy volunteers decreased concentrations of the active metabolite of losartan by 30% to 56%.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with asciminib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with asciminib is necessary as concurrent use may increase mefloquine exposure and mefloquine-related adverse events. Mefloquine is a substrate of CYP3A and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. If asciminib is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with asciminib can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. If asciminib is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; asciminib is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with asciminib can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and asciminib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of midazolam with asciminib 40 mg twice daily, 80 mg once daily, and 200 mg twice daily increased the exposure of midazolam by 28%, 24%, and 88%, respectively.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with mifepristone is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and mitotane. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with asciminib. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of asciminib is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP2C8 substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP2C8 inhibitor. In vitro, the metabolism of paclitaxel to 6-alpha-hydroxypaclitaxel was inhibited by another inhibitor of CYP2C8.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and asciminib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in nateglinide-related adverse effects, such as hypoglycemia, if concomitant use with asciminib is necessary; a nateglinide dosage reduction may be required. Concomitant use may increase nateglinide exposure. Nateglinide is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with nefazodone is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with nelfinavir is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A and asciminib is a dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with ritonavir is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with asciminib due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. If asciminib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like asciminib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If asciminib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of asciminib is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP2C8 substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP2C8 inhibitor. In vitro, the metabolism of paclitaxel to 6-alpha-hydroxypaclitaxel was inhibited by another inhibitor of CYP2C8.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and asciminib due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a BCRP substrate; asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit BCRP.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased asciminib efficacy and an increase in phenytoin-related adverse effects during concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure and increase phenytoin exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and CYP2C9 inhibitor and phenytoin is a CYP2C9 substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and asciminib. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate, and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glimepiride-related adverse reactions, such as hypoglycemia, if coadministration with asciminib 200 mg twice daily is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glimepiride exposure. Glimepiride is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. An interaction is not expected with asciminib doses less than 200 mg twice daily.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with posaconazole is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of asciminib with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Primidone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and asciminib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with asciminib; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and asciminib with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for asciminib-related adverse effects in patients who are receiving asciminib 200 mg twice daily if concomitant use with relacorilant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased asciminib overall exposure by 36%.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral asciminib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer asciminib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of asciminib is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral asciminib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer asciminib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of asciminib is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) A dose reduction of repaglinide and increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Repaglinide is a CYP2C8 and CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP2C8 and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of repaglinide with asciminib 40 mg twice daily, 80 mg once daily, and 200 mg twice daily increased the exposure of repaglinide by 8%, 12% and 42%, respectively.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with asciminib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with ribociclib is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with ribociclib is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and rifampin. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced asciminib overall exposure by 15%.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and rifapentine. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with asciminib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with ritonavir is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with saquinavir is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and asciminib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and asciminib 200 mg twice daily may increase siponimod exposure. If the patient is also receiving a drug regimen containing a moderate or strong CYP3A inhibitor, use of siponimod is not recommended due to a significant increase in siponimod exposure. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A dual inhibitor led to a 2-fold increase in the AUC of siponimod. An interaction is not expected with asciminib doses less than 200 mg twice daily.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of asciminib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and St. John's wort. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if asciminib must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. If asciminib is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like asciminib can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If asciminib is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and asciminib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and asciminib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with asciminib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Terbinafine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in terbinafine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Terbinafine is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; asciminib is a dual CYP2C9 and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9 and CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of terbinafine by 52% and 69%, respectively.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with tipranavir is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asciminib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; asciminib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of asciminib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of asciminib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with asciminib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with tucatinib is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and BCRP substrate; asciminib is a weak CYP3A and BCRP inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with asciminib due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of asciminib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of asciminib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with clarithromycin is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with clarithromycin increased asciminib exposure by 36%.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with voriconazole is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with asciminib is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The active metabolite of warfarin, the S-enantiomer, is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib is a CYP2C9 inhibitor. Coadministration of warfarin with asciminib 40 mg twice daily, 80 mg once daily, and 200 mg twice daily increased the exposure of S-warfarin by 41%,52% and 314%, respectively. Additionally, the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in zafirlukast-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zafirlukast exposure. Zafirlukast is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg twice daily is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor increased the exposure of zafirlukast by approximately 58%. An interaction is not expected with asciminib doses less than 200 mg twice daily.


Adverse Reaction
anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Hematologic toxicity was reported with asciminib therapy. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myelosuppression and obtain complete blood counts every 2 weeks for the first 3 months of treatment and then monthly thereafter or as clinically indicated. Therapy interruption, a dosage adjustment, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe hematologic toxicity. Anemia (13%; grade 3, 4%), neutropenia (22%; grade 3, 8%; grade 4, 6%), and thrombocytopenia (28%; grade 3, 7%; grade 4, 10%) were reported in patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (Ph+ CML) who received asciminib (dose range, 10 mg to 200 mg twice daily) in a pooled safety population from clinical trials. In patients with grade 3 or 4 anemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia, the median times to first event occurrence were 24 weeks, 7 weeks, and 6 weeks, respectively. Decreased platelet count (25% to 48%; grade 3 or 4, 12% to 24%), neutrophil count (43% to 46%; grade 3 or 4, 12% to 22%), hemoglobin concentration (22% to 44%; grade 3 or 4, 2% to 4.2%), and lymphocyte count/lymphopenia (20% to 72%; grade 3 or 4, 3% to 4.2%) that worsened from baseline occurred in patients who received asciminib in clinical trials. Additionally, leukopenia/decreased leukocyte count (55%; grade 3 or 4, 5%) that worsened from baseline occurred in newly diagnosed patients. Febrile neutropenia occurred in less than 10% of newly diagnosed and previously treated patients.


hyperamylasemia, pancreatitis


Pancreatic toxicity was reported with asciminib therapy. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pancreatic toxicity; increase the frequency of monitoring in patients with a history of pancreatitis. Obtain serum amylase and lipase levels monthly or as clinically indicated. Therapy interruption, a dosage adjustment, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop elevated pancreatic enzymes. Elevation of amylase and lipase levels (20%; grade 3, 7%; grade 4, 2%) and pancreatitis (2%; grade 3, 1.1%) were reported in patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib (dose range, 10 mg to 200 mg twice daily) in a pooled safety population from clinical trials. Increased lipase level (15% to 46%; grade 3 or 4, 4.5% to 21%) and hyperamylasemia (13% to 29%; grade 3 or 4, 1.3% to 10%) were reported.


hypertension, hypertensive crisis


Increased blood pressure was reported with asciminib therapy. Monitor patients for signs of high blood pressure; manage patients per standard clinical guidelines. Therapy interruption, a dosage adjustment, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe hypertension. Hypertension including hypertensive crisis was reported in 11% to 14% (grade 3 or 4, 6% to 8%) of patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib (dose range, 10 mg to 200 mg twice daily) in a pooled safety population from clinical trials. The median time to first onset of hypertension was 45 weeks.


heart failure, palpitations, QT prolongation, stroke, thromboembolism, thrombosis


Cardiovascular toxicity (i.e., ischemic cardiac and central nervous system conditions, arterial thrombotic and embolic conditions/thromboembolism) (12%; grade 3, 2.5%; grade 4, 0.7%; grade 5, 0.7%), cardiac arrhythmias (6%; grade 3, 1.8%; grade 4, 0.4%) including QT prolongation (0.9%; grade 3, 0.4%), and heart failure (2.3%; grade 3, 0.9%) were reported in patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib (dose range, 10 mg to 200 mg twice daily) in a pooled safety population from clinical trials. Additionally, palpitations occurred in less than 10% of patients. Fatal mesenteric artery thrombosis (0.6%) and ischemic stroke (0.6%) were each reported in previously treated patients. Monitor patients with a history of cardiac disease or cardiac risk factors for signs or symptoms of cardiotoxicity; initiate appropriate treatment as clinically indicated. Therapy interruption, a dosage adjustment, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe cardiovascular toxicity.


infection, influenza, pharyngitis, rhinitis


Upper respiratory tract infection occurred in 13% to 26% (grade 3 or 4, 0.6%) of patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials. Urinary tract infection and influenza were each reported in less than 10% of newly diagnosed and previously treated patients. Additionally, lower respiratory tract infection and pneumonia each occurred in less than 10% of patients. The term upper respiratory tract infection included nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, pharyngitis, and pharyngotonsillitis.


arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia


Musculoskeletal pain occurred in 24% to 29% (grade 3 or 4, 1.5% to 2.6%) of patients with newly diagnosed and previously treated chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (Ph+ CML) who received asciminib 40 mg twice daily or 80 mg once daily and 42% (grade 3 or 4, 4.2%) of chronic phase Ph+ CML patients with the T315I mutation who received asciminib 200 mg twice daily in clinical trials. Arthralgia was reported in 13% to 17% (grade 3 or 4, 0.6% to 2%) of patients. Additionally, increased creatine kinase level that worsened from baseline was reported in 30% (grade 3 or 4, 2.6%) of previously treated patients. The term musculoskeletal pain included pain in extremity, back pain, myalgia, non-cardiac/musculoskeletal chest pain, bone pain, and arthritis.


dizziness, headache, migraine, peripheral neuropathy


Headache including migraine occurred in 14% to 21% (grade 3 or 4, 0.5% to 2.1%) of patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials. Additionally, dizziness and peripheral neuropathy each occurred in less than 10% of patients.


asthenia, fatigue


Fatigue including asthenia occurred in 19% to 31% (grade 3 or 4, 0.6% to 2.1%) of patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials.


acneiform rash, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, urticaria


Rash occurred in 18% to 27% (grade 3 or 4, 0.6%) of patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials. Additionally, pruritus (less than 10%) and urticaria (less than 10%) occurred in patients. The term rash included maculopapular rash, acneiform rash/dermatitis, eczema, skin exfoliation, morbilliform rash, and erythema multiforme.


abdominal pain, anorexia, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting


Gastrointestinal toxicity including diarrhea including colitis (13% to 21%; grade 3 or 4, 0% to 2.1%), nausea (less than 10% to 27%; grade 3 or 4, 0% to 0.6%), abdominal pain (14% to 17%; grade 3 or 4, 0% to 8%), and constipation (less than 10% to 10%) occurred in patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials. Vomiting was reported in less than 10% of patients who received asciminib 40 mg twice daily or 80 mg once daily and 19% (grade 3 or 4, 6%) of patients with the T315I mutation who received asciminib 200 mg twice daily. Additionally, decreased appetite/anorexia occurred in less than 10% of patients. The term abdominal pain included abdominal tenderness, epigastric discomfort, and hepatic pain.


edema


Edema occurred in less than 10% to 10% (grade 3 or 4, 4.2%) of patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials.


cough, dyspnea, pleural effusion


Cough occurred in less than 10% to 15% of patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials. Additionally, dyspnea and pleural effusion each occurred in less than 10% of patients.


bleeding, epistaxis, vaginal bleeding


Bleeding occurred in less than 10% to 15% (grade 3 or 4, 2.1%) of patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials. The term bleeding included epistaxis, ear hemorrhage, mouth hemorrhage, post procedural hemorrhage, skin hemorrhage, and vaginal bleeding.


fever


Fever occurred in less than 10% of patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials.


blurred vision, xerophthalmia


Xerophthalmia/dry eye and blurred vision each occurred in less than 10% of patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials.


hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia


Hypertriglyceridemia (25% to 46%; grade 3 or 4, 1% to 5%) and hypercholesterolemia (12% to 40%) worsened from baseline in patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials. Additionally, hyperlipidemia/dyslipidemia occurred in less than 10% to 19% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients.


hypothyroidism


Hypothyroidism occurred in less than 10% of patients with newly diagnosed and previously treated chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib 40 mg twice daily or 80 mg once daily in clinical trials.


bronchospasm


Hypersensitivity reactions were reported with asciminib therapy. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity; initiate appropriate treatment as clinically indicated. Therapy interruption, a dosage adjustment, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop a severe hypersensitivity reaction. Hypersensitivity including rash, edema, and bronchospasm occurred in 31% (grade 3 or 4, 1.1%) of patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib (dose range, 10 mg to 200 mg twice daily) in a pooled safety population from clinical trials.


hyperuricemia


Hyperuricemia that worsened from baseline occurred in 21% to 40% (grade 3 or 4, 0% to 6%) of patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials.


nephrotoxicity


Nephrotoxicity, specifically increase serum creatinine level, that worsened from baseline occurred in 15% and 31% of patients with previously treated chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (Ph+ CML) who received asciminib 40 mg twice daily and chronic phase Ph+ CML with the T315I mutation who received asciminib 200 mg twice daily, respectively, in clinical trials.


hyperkalemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia


Hypocalcemia/decreased corrected calcium level (16% to 46%; grade 3 or 4, 0% to 0.6%) that worsened from baseline occurred in patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (Ph+ CML) who received asciminib in clinical trials. Hypophosphatemia/decreased phosphate level that worsened from baseline was reported in 18% (grade 3 or 4, 6%) of previously treated patients who received asciminib 40 mg twice daily and 40% (grade 3 or 4, 6%) of patients with the T315I mutation who received asciminib 200 mg twice daily. Hypokalemia/decreased potassium level that worsened from baseline was reported in 11% of previously treated patients. Hyperkalemia/increased potassium level that worsened from baseline occurred in 48% (grade 3 or 4, 2.1%) of patients with the T315I mutation.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia


Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased ALT (27% to 48%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6% to 6%) and alkaline phosphatase (13% to 26%; grade 3 or 4, 0% to 0.5%) levels that worsened from baseline occurred in patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia who received asciminib in clinical trials. Increased AST (21% and 35%; grade 3 or 4, 1.9% and 2.1%) and hyperbilirubinemia (12% and 23%) that worsened from baseline occurred in previously treated patients who received asciminib 40 mg twice daily and patients with the T315I mutation who received asciminib 200 mg twice daily, respectively.


infertility


Infertility may occur with asciminib use in females based on animal data. It is not known whether fertility effects are reversible.


Description

Asciminib is a BCR-ABL1 inhibitor specifically targeting the ABL myristoyl pocket (STAMP). It is indicated for the treatment of chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (Ph+ CML) in newly diagnosed or previously treated adult patients and in adult patients with chronic phase Ph+ CML with the T315I mutation. Myelosuppression, pancreatitis, cardiovascular toxicity, and hypertension have been reported with asciminib therapy.

Mechanism Of Action

Asciminib is an oral ABL/BCR-ABL1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) specifically targeting the ABL myristoyl pocket (STAMP). It inhibits the ABL1 kinase activity of the BCR::ABL1 fusion protein by binding to the ABL myristoyl pocket. Asciminib has demonstrated activity against wild-type and some mutant forms of BCR::ABL including T315I. By binding in the myristoyl pocket, asciminib mimics myristate and stabilizes the inactive state of ABL kinase. Asciminib inhibits BCR::ABL1 proliferation in leukemia cell lines at IC50 values between 1 and 25 nanomolar. Its anti-proliferative activity is reduced by 10-fold on T315I mutant (mean, IC50 concentration, 7.64 nanomolar) compared with wild-type (mean, IC50 concentration, 0.61 nanomolar) BCR::ABL1-expressing cells. Asciminib demonstrated resistance to overexpression of ABCB1/ABCG2 and p-STAT5 in human BCR::ABL1 cell lines.

Pharmacokinetics

Asciminib is administered orally. It is 97% bound to plasma proteins in vitro. The mean apparent steady-state volume of distribution is 151 L (coefficient of variation (CV), 135%); asciminib is the main component in plasma (93% of the dose). At a dosage of 40 mg twice daily or 80 mg once daily, the terminal elimination half-life is 5.5 hours (CV, 38%) and the apparent clearance is 6.7 L/hour (CV, 48%). At a dosage of 200 mg twice daily, the terminal elimination half-life is 9 hours (CV, 33%) and the apparent clearance is 4.1 L/hour (CV, 38%). Asciminib is metabolized by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme and by UGT2B7-and UGT2B17-mediated glucuronidation; elimination occurs by biliary secretion via the breast cancer resistant protein (BCRP). Following a single oral 80-mg dose of radiolabeled asciminib, 80% of the total radioactivity was recovered in the feces (unchanged, 57%) and 11% was recovered in the urine (unchanged, 2.5%).
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, UGT1A1
Asciminib is a substrate and a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4; it is also a weak CYP2C8 inhibitor, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor, a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor at 40 mg twice daily or 80 mg once daily dosing, and a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor at 200 mg twice daily dosing. Although asciminib is a P-gp substrate in vitro, no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic differences were observed when asciminib was administered with a P-gp inhibitor (quinidine). In vitro, asciminib is a reversible inhibitor UGT1A1 (at 80 mg/day and 200 mg twice daily) and CYP2C19 (at 200 mg twice daily); it is also a substrate of BCRP and an inhibitor of BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and OCT1. Concomitant use of asciminib may increase the plasma concentration of BCRP substrates and increase the risk of adverse reactions associated with these substrates. Asciminib may increase the exposure of BCRP substrates in a dose-dependent manner.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

At a dosage of 40 mg twice daily, the steady-state asciminib Cmax and AUC(0 to 12h) values were 793 nanograms/mL (coefficient of variation (CV), 49%) and 5,262 nanograms x hour/mL (CV, 48%), respectively; the accumulation ratio was 1.65. At a dosage of 80 mg once daily, the steady-state asciminib Cmax and AUC(0 to 24h) values were 1,781 nanograms/mL (CV, 23%) and 15,112 nanograms x hour/mL (CV, 28%), respectively; the accumulation ratio was 1.3. At a dosage of 200 mg twice daily, the steady-state asciminib Cmax and AUC(0 to 12h) values were 5,642 nanograms/mL (CV, 40%) and 37,547 nanograms x hour/mL (CV, 41%), respectively; the accumulation ratio was 1.92. Steady state was achieved within 3 days. The median Tmax is 2.5 hours (range, 2 to 3 hours). Asciminib exhibits slightly more than dose-proportional increases in steady-state Cmax and AUC values over a dose range of 10 to 200 mg given once or twice daily.
Effects of Food: The AUC and Cmax values decreased by 62% and 68%, respectively, when asciminib was administered with a high-fat (1,000 calories with 50% from fat) and by 30% and 35%, respectively, when asciminib was administered with a low-fat meal (400 calories with 25% from fat) compared with fasting conditions.

Hepatic Impairment

Mild (total bilirubin level at or below the ULN and AST level greater than the ULN OR total bilirubin level of 1 to 1.5 times the ULN and any AST level) or moderate (total bilirubin level of 1.5 to 3 times the ULN and any AST level) hepatic impairment does not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of asciminib. Following a single 40-mg dose of asciminib, the Cmax and AUC(inf) values were increased by 4% and 33%, respectively, in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin level more than 3 times the ULN and any AST level) compared with subjects who had normal hepatic function.

Renal Impairment

Mild to moderate renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 30 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2) does not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of asciminib. Following a single 40-mg dose of asciminib, the Cmax and AUC(inf) values were increased by 6% and 57%, respectively, in subjects with severe renal impairment (eGFR of 14 to less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2) who were not receiving dialysis compared with subjects who had normal renal function.

Geriatric

Age (range, 20 to 88 years) does not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of asciminib.

Gender Differences

Sex does not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of asciminib.

Ethnic Differences

Race (Asian 20%, White 70%, Black/African American 4%) does not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of asciminib.

Obesity

Body weight (range, 42 kg to 184 kg) does not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of asciminib.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Take asciminib on an empty stomach; avoid eating for at least 2 hours before and 1 hour after taking it.
Swallow tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew tablets.
Skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time if a dose is missed by more than 12 hours for once-daily dosing or more than 6 hours with twice-daily dosing.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

80 mg/day PO for previously treated chronic phase Ph+ CML; 400 mg/day PO for chronic phase Ph+ CML with the T315I mutation.

Geriatric

80 mg/day PO for previously treated chronic phase Ph+ CML; 400 mg/day PO for chronic phase Ph+ CML with the T315I mutation.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

SCEMBLIX 100mg Tablet

SCEMBLIX 20mg Tablet

SCEMBLIX 40mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

An asciminib dosage adjustment is not necessary in patients with mild (total bilirubin level at or below the ULN and AST level greater than the ULN OR total bilirubin level of 1 to 1.5 times the ULN and any AST level) to severe (total bilirubin level more than 3 times the ULN and any AST level) hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

An asciminib dosage adjustment is not necessary in patients with mild to severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate of 15 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2).

© 2026 Elsevier