=== Phendimetrazine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1509)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Phendimetrazine is an oral, centrally-acting stimulant and sympathomimetic amine.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 210 mg/day PO for immediate-release formulation; 105 mg/day PO for extended-release formulation.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cardiac valvulopathy, hypertension, palpitations, pulmonary hypertension, sinus tachycardia, depression, eeg changes, fatigue, irritability, psychological dependence, withdrawal

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to phendimetrazine or other sympathomimetics. Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in patients who are in an agitated state.

Brand Names
  - Bock-Arate
  - Bontril PDM
  - Bontril SR
  - Melfiat 105 Unicelles
  - Prelu-2
  - Rapdone
  - Stabec-1

Dosage Forms
  - Phendimetrazine Tartrate 105mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Phendimetrazine Tartrate 35mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (immediate-release tablets)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        The usual dose is 35 mg PO 2 to 3 times per day, given 1 hour before meals. In some cases, 17.5 mg per dose may be adequate. Max: Do not exceed 2 tablets (70 mg) PO 3 times a day.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (extended-release capsules)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults and Adolescents 17 years and older
        Dosage Description
        105 mg (1 capsule) PO once daily, given 30 to 60 minutes before breakfast. Max: Do not exceed 105 mg (1 capsule)/day PO.
    Heading
    For the short-term (i.e., a few weeks) treatment of exogenous obesity

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to phendimetrazine or other sympathomimetics.
 
Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in patients who are in an agitated state. Sympathomimetics such as phendimetrazine may exacerbate the symptoms of bipolar disorder (e.g., mania), schizophrenia (e.g., psychosis), or anxiety disorders. Discontinuation of therapy may be required.
 
Because phendimetrazine is a sympathomimetic agent, it is contraindicated in thyroid disease patients with hyperthyroidism.
 
Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in patients with glaucoma due to the ability of sympathetic stimulation to block aqueous outflow and raise intraocular pressure.
 
Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in patients with advanced arteriosclerosis , moderate to severe hypertension, and symptomatic cardiac disease. Caution should be exercised in patients with even mild hypertension. Valvular heart disease has been associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. Possible contributing factors include use for extended periods of time, higher than recommended dose, and/or use in combination with other anorectic drugs. Valvulopathy has not been reported with phendimetrazine monotherapy. The potential risk of possible serious adverse effects such as valvular heart disease should be assessed carefully against the potential benefit of weight loss. Baseline cardiac evaluation should be considered to detect preexisting valvular heart diseases prior to initiation of phendimetrazine treatment. Phendimetrazine is not recommended in patients with cardiac arrhythmias, heart murmur or valvular heart disease. Echocardiogram during and after treatment could be useful for detecting any valvular disorders which may occur.
 
In a case-control epidemiological study, the use of anorectic agents, including phendimetrazine, was associated with an increased risk of developing pulmonary hypertension, a rare, but often fatal disorder. The use of anorectic agents for longer than 3 months was associated with a 23-fold increase in the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension. Increased risk of pulmonary hypertension with repeated courses of therapy cannot be excluded. The onset or aggravation of exertional dyspnea, or unexplained symptoms of angina pectoris, syncope, or lower extremity edema suggest the possibility of occurrence of pulmonary hypertension. Under these circumstances, phendimetrazine should be immediately discontinued, and the patient should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension. The potential risk of possible serious adverse effects such as pulmonary hypertension should be assessed carefully against the potential benefit of weight loss. Baseline cardiac evaluation should be considered to detect preexisting pulmonary hypertension prior to initiation of phendimetrazine treatment.
 
Abrupt discontinuation of phendimetrazine after prolonged high doses may result in severe mental depression or extreme fatigue; sleep EEG changes have also been noted. Gradual withdrawal of therapy is recommended.
 
Phendimetrazine is contraindicated for use in patients with a history of substance abuse. Phendimetrazine is chemically and pharmacologically related to the amphetamines which have been extensively abused. Obesity treatment with phendimetrazine should be tried only in weight reduction programs for whom alternative therapies, including repeated dietary reduction, exercise. Physiological dependence can occur with prolonged administration of phendimetrazine. The appetite suppressant is not recommend for use in those patients with a history of anorexia nervosa or other eating disorders. Risk versus benefit should be weighed in patients with a history of alcoholism, major depression, or suicidal ideation. Symptoms of chronic intoxication include insomnia, irritability, change in personality, and psychotic symptoms that may be clinically indistinguishable from other psychotic disorders, like schizophrenia. The least amount reasonable should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to limit the potential for overuse or drug diversion.
 
Phendimetrazine is not recommended for children and adolescents under 16 years of age. Safe and effective use in pediatric patients has not been established.
 
Phendimetrazine is classified pregnancy category C. Safe use of phentermine during pregnancy has not been established. Phendimetrazine should not be taken by pregnant women or by women who may become pregnant unless, in the opinion of the physician, the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards.
 
It is not known whether phendimetrazine and its metabolites are excreted in breast milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse effects in the nursing infants, breast-feeding while taking phendimetrazine is not recommended.
 
Concurrent use of phendimetrazine with other anorectic agents should be avoided. Phendimetrazine is not recommended for patients who have used any anorectic agent within the prior year.
 
Use phendimetrazine cautiously in patients with diabetes mellitus. Insulin requirements may be altered in these patients when using phendimetrazine and changing dietary regimens.
 
The use of phendimetrazine may cause dizziness, mask signs of fatigue or the need for rest, or impair the ability of a patient to participate in activities that require mental alertness. Patients should not perform such tasks, including driving or operating machinery, until they are aware of how this medication affects them. Debilitated patients or the elderly may be more susceptible to the CNS and sympathomimetic side effects of the phendimetrazine; use with caution in elderly patients.
 
The use of inhalational anesthetics during surgery may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetic drugs. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phendimetrazine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
 
Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in patients receiving MAOI therapy. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of phendimetrazine (see Drug Interactions).
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Phendimetrazine is also contraindicated in people with a prior history of hypersensitivity or idiosyncratic reaction to sympathomimetic amines. Additionally, some tablet products contain FD and C yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) which may cause allergic type reactions (including bronchial asthma) in certain susceptible individuals. Although the overall incidence of tatrazine sensitivity in the general population is low, it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Concurrent use of phendimetrazine with other anorectic agents or CNS stimulants is contraindicated. Phendimetrazine is not recommended for patients who have used any anorectic agent within the prior year.
Tolerance to the anorectic effect of phendimetrazine develops within a few weeks. When this occurs, its use should be discontinued; the maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded.
    Headline
    agitated state
    General Information
    Phendimetrazine is contraindicated for use in individuals in an agitated state.
    Headline
    hyperthyroidism
    General Information
    Because phendimetrazine is a sympathomimetic agent and may increase heart rate and blood pressure, it is contraindicated in individuals with hyperthyroidism.
    Headline
    glaucoma
    General Information
    Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in people with glaucoma due to the ability of sympathetic stimulation to block aqueous outflow and raise intraocular pressure.
    Headline
    cardiovascular disease, pulmonary hypertension, valvular heart disease
    General Information
    Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in individuals with a history of cardiovascular disease including cardiac arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, heart failure, pulmonary hypertension, uncontrolled hypertension or stroke. Phendimetrazine is not recommended in individuals with known heart murmur or valvular heart disease. Sympathomimetic agents may increase blood pressure and heart rate; monitor blood pressure and heart rate in treated individuals. The use of anorectic agents, including phendimetrazine, has been associated with an increased risk of developing pulmonary hypertension, a rare, but often fatal disorder, and some anorectic agents have been associated with the development of valvular heart disease. Possible contributing factors include use for extended periods of time, higher than recommended dose, and/or use in combination with other anorectic drugs. Consider baseline cardiac evaluation to detect preexisting valvular heart disease or pulmonary hypertension prior to initiation of phendimetrazine treatment. Further, use phendimetrazine with caution in individuals with even mild hypertension. In phendimetrazine recipients, the onset or aggravation of exertional dyspnea, or unexplained symptoms of angina pectoris, syncope, or lower extremity edema suggest the possibility of occurrence of pulmonary hypertension. Under these circumstances, phendimetrazine should be immediately discontinued, and the patient should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension.
    Headline
    substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in people with a history of a substance abuse disorder. Phendimetrazine is chemically and pharmacologically related to the amphetamines which have been extensively abused. Symptoms of chronic intoxication include insomnia, irritability, change in personality, and psychotic symptoms that may be clinically indistinguishable from other psychotic disorders, like schizophrenia. Physiological dependence can also occur with prolonged administration of phendimetrazine. The least amount reasonable should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to limit the potential for overuse or drug diversion. Obesity treatment with phendimetrazine should be tried only in weight reduction programs for which alternative therapies, including dietary adjustments and/or exercise, have not been effective.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Use phendimetrazine cautiously in people with diabetes mellitus. Insulin or other diabetes medication requirements may be altered in these individuals when using phendimetrazine due to the medication, weight loss, and changing dietary regimens.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    The use of phendimetrazine may cause dizziness, mask signs of fatigue or the need for rest, or impair the ability of an individual to participate in activities requiring coordination and concentration. Patients should not perform such tasks, including driving or operating machinery, until they are aware of how this medication affects them.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Phendimetrazine extended-release (ER) capsules have not been studied in people with renal impairment or renal failure. As phendimetrazine is excreted in the urine, exposure increases can be expected in those with reduced renal function. Caution is therefore warranted when phendimetrazine ER capsules are administered to patients with renal dysfunction.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Geriatric adults may be more susceptible to the CNS and sympathomimetic side effects of phendimetrazine extended-release (ER) capsules; use with caution in older adults. Additionally, dosage selection for the ER capsules for a geriatric adult should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of impaired renal function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. It may be useful to monitor renal function during treatment.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Phendimetrazine is contraindicated during pregnancy because weight loss offers no potential benefit to a pregnant individual and may result in fetal harm. A minimum weight gain, and no weight loss, is currently recommended for all pregnant individuals, including those who are already overweight or obese, due to obligatory weight gain that occurs in maternal tissues during pregnancy. Phendimetrazine tartrate, a phenylalkylamine sympathomimetic amine, has pharmacological activity similar to amphetamines. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phendimetrazine. If pregnancy occurs during phendimetrazine therapy, advise the pregnant individual of the potential hazard to the fetus. Safe use in pregnancy has not been established.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in people who are breast-feeding because of the potential for serious adverse effects in the breastfed child. It is not known whether phendimetrazine and its metabolites are excreted in human milk. Phendimetrazine tartrate, a phenylalkylamine sympathomimetic amine, has pharmacological activity similar to the amphetamines, and other amphetamines are present in human milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Phendimetrazine is contraindicated during pregnancy because weight loss offers no potential benefit to a pregnant individual and may result in fetal harm. A minimum weight gain, and no weight loss, is currently recommended for all pregnant individuals, including those who are already overweight or obese, due to obligatory weight gain that occurs in maternal tissues during pregnancy. Phendimetrazine tartrate, a phenylalkylamine sympathomimetic amine, has pharmacological activity similar to amphetamines. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phendimetrazine. If pregnancy occurs during phendimetrazine therapy, advise the pregnant individual of the potential hazard to the fetus. Safe use in pregnancy has not been established.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Phendimetrazine is contraindicated in people who are breast-feeding because of the potential for serious adverse effects in the breastfed child. It is not known whether phendimetrazine and its metabolites are excreted in human milk. Phendimetrazine tartrate, a phenylalkylamine sympathomimetic amine, has pharmacological activity similar to the amphetamines, and other amphetamines are present in human milk.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alpha-blockers: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ambrisentan: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Amifampridine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with phendimetrazine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Phendimetrazine may increase the risk of seizures.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of tricyclic antidepressants with phendimetrazine whenever possible. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may potentiate the pressor response to sympathomimetic agents, such as phendimetrazine. TCAs inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in adrenergic neurons, resulting in increased stimulation of adrenergic receptors. Clinically, the patient might experience side effects like hypertension, headache, tremor, palpitations, chest pain, or irregular heartbeat. Patients should be closely monitored if use together is unavoidable.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Amoxapine: (Major) Concomitant use of amoxapine with sympathomimetics should be avoided whenever possible; use with caution when concurrent use cannot be avoided. One drug information reference suggests that cyclic antidepressants potentiate the pharmacologic effects of direct-acting sympathomimetics, but decrease the pressor response to indirect-acting sympathomimetics, however, the data are not consistent.
Angiotensin II: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when arformoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Due to the potential for increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with drugs with sympathomimetic activity such as phendimetrazine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if sympathomimetics are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when sympathomimetics are administered with bretylium. The pressor and arrhythmogenic effects of catecholamines are enhanced by bretylium.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Limit the concomitant use of bromocriptine and a sympathomimetic to 10 days or less. Both medications may increase the risk for blood pressure elevations and tachycardia.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
buPROPion: (Major) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of phendimetrazine is associated with an increased seizure risk; seizures may be more likely to occur in these patients during concurrent use of bupropion. Patients should be closely monitored if these combinations are necessary.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of phendimetrazine is associated with an increased seizure risk; seizures may be more likely to occur in these patients during concurrent use of bupropion. Patients should be closely monitored if these combinations are necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of tricyclic antidepressants with phendimetrazine whenever possible. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may potentiate the pressor response to sympathomimetic agents, such as phendimetrazine. TCAs inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in adrenergic neurons, resulting in increased stimulation of adrenergic receptors. Clinically, the patient might experience side effects like hypertension, headache, tremor, palpitations, chest pain, or irregular heartbeat. Patients should be closely monitored if use together is unavoidable.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Avoid use of tricyclic antidepressants with phendimetrazine whenever possible. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may potentiate the pressor response to sympathomimetic agents, such as phendimetrazine. TCAs inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in adrenergic neurons, resulting in increased stimulation of adrenergic receptors. Clinically, the patient might experience side effects like hypertension, headache, tremor, palpitations, chest pain, or irregular heartbeat. Patients should be closely monitored if use together is unavoidable.
cloNIDine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of clonidine when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for loss of blood pressure control.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine. If unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine and vasoconstrictor agents during nasal and sinus surgery. The risk for nervousness, irritability, convulsions, and other cardiac arrhythmias may increase during coadministration.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Desipramine: (Major) Avoid use of tricyclic antidepressants with phendimetrazine whenever possible. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may potentiate the pressor response to sympathomimetic agents, such as phendimetrazine. TCAs inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in adrenergic neurons, resulting in increased stimulation of adrenergic receptors. Clinically, the patient might experience side effects like hypertension, headache, tremor, palpitations, chest pain, or irregular heartbeat. Patients should be closely monitored if use together is unavoidable.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of phendimetrazine is associated with an increased seizure risk; seizures may be more likely to occur in these patients during concurrent use of bupropion. Patients should be closely monitored if these combinations are necessary.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
DOPamine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxazosin: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Doxepin: (Major) Avoid use of tricyclic antidepressants with phendimetrazine whenever possible. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may potentiate the pressor response to sympathomimetic agents, such as phendimetrazine. TCAs inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in adrenergic neurons, resulting in increased stimulation of adrenergic receptors. Clinically, the patient might experience side effects like hypertension, headache, tremor, palpitations, chest pain, or irregular heartbeat. Patients should be closely monitored if use together is unavoidable.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with sympathomimetics may result in additive hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity. Dronabinol, THC has been associated with occasional hypotension, hypertension, syncope, and tachycardia. In a study of 7 adult males, combinations of IV cocaine and smoked marijuana, 1 g marijuana cigarette, 0 to 2.7% delta-9-THC, increased the heart rate above levels seen with either agent alone, with increases plateauing at 50 bpm.
Droxidopa: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
EPINEPHrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and phendimetrazine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as phendimetrazine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Phendimetrazine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should also be used when salmeterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Iloprost: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with iloprost. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including iloprost. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Imipramine: (Major) Avoid use of tricyclic antidepressants with phendimetrazine whenever possible. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may potentiate the pressor response to sympathomimetic agents, such as phendimetrazine. TCAs inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in adrenergic neurons, resulting in increased stimulation of adrenergic receptors. Clinically, the patient might experience side effects like hypertension, headache, tremor, palpitations, chest pain, or irregular heartbeat. Patients should be closely monitored if use together is unavoidable.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue sympathomimetics for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart sympathomimetics until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as sympathomimetics, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Iodixanol: (Major) Phendimetrazine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iohexol: (Major) Phendimetrazine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iomeprol: (Major) Phendimetrazine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iopamidol: (Major) Phendimetrazine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iopromide: (Major) Phendimetrazine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ioversol: (Major) Phendimetrazine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Isoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics, such as isoflurane, sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, such as phendimetrazine. Chronic use of sympathomimetics prior to halogenated anesthetics may result in cardiac arrhythmias. Phendimetrazine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery using halogenated anesthetics.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Phendimetrazine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when ketamine and phendimetrazine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Phendimetrazine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of ketamine.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Linezolid may enhance the hypertensive effect of phendimetrazine. Closely monitor for increased blood pressure during coadministration. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic agents, such as phendimetrazine.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Lithium: (Moderate) Psychostimulants, such as phendimetrazine, can occasionally worsen mania in those with bipolar disorder, potentially reducing the overall effectiveness of treatment with mood stabilizers. According to some literature and the product labeling of many stimulants, lithium may antagonize the anorectic and stimulant effects of amphetamines. Despite this precaution, some data indicate a beneficial effect based upon the clinical circumstances of the patient. Further study is needed to fully assess the benefits and risks that may occur from concomitant administration of psychostimulants and lithium. Close monitoring is advisable when combination therapy is initiated or dosages are increased.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Mecamylamine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by mecamylamine. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Metaproterenol: (Major) Caution and close observation should also be used when metaproterenol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Methyldopa: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of methyldopa when administered concomitantly. Blood pressure should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Midodrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Phendimetrazine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of tricyclic antidepressants with phendimetrazine whenever possible. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may potentiate the pressor response to sympathomimetic agents, such as phendimetrazine. TCAs inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in adrenergic neurons, resulting in increased stimulation of adrenergic receptors. Clinically, the patient might experience side effects like hypertension, headache, tremor, palpitations, chest pain, or irregular heartbeat. Patients should be closely monitored if use together is unavoidable.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of tricyclic antidepressants with phendimetrazine whenever possible. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may potentiate the pressor response to sympathomimetic agents, such as phendimetrazine. TCAs inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in adrenergic neurons, resulting in increased stimulation of adrenergic receptors. Clinically, the patient might experience side effects like hypertension, headache, tremor, palpitations, chest pain, or irregular heartbeat. Patients should be closely monitored if use together is unavoidable.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phentermine: (Contraindicated) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The safety of phendimetrazine when used with other anorexiants such as phentermine is controversial and concurrent use should be avoided. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia. Similarly, phendimetrazine should not be used in combination with OTC preparations and herbal products that may contain ephedra alkaloids or Ma huang.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Contraindicated) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The safety of phendimetrazine when used with other anorexiants such as phentermine is controversial and concurrent use should be avoided. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia. Similarly, phendimetrazine should not be used in combination with OTC preparations and herbal products that may contain ephedra alkaloids or Ma huang.
Phentolamine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prazosin: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Procarbazine: (Major) Because procarbazine exhibits some monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity, sympathomimetic drugs should be avoided. As with MAOIs, the use of a sympathomimetic drug with procarbazine may precipitate hypertensive crisis or other serious side effects. In the presence of MAOIs, drugs that cause release of norepinephrine induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses. In general, do not use a sympathomimetic drug unless clinically necessary (e.g., medical emergencies, agents like dopamine) within the 14 days prior, during or 14 days after procarbazine therapy. If use is necessary within 2 weeks of the MAOI drug, in general the initial dose of the sympathomimetic agent must be greatly reduced. Patients should be counseled to avoid non-prescription (OTC) decongestants and other drug products, weight loss products, and energy supplements that contain sympathomimetic agents.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Protriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of tricyclic antidepressants with phendimetrazine whenever possible. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may potentiate the pressor response to sympathomimetic agents, such as phendimetrazine. TCAs inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in adrenergic neurons, resulting in increased stimulation of adrenergic receptors. Clinically, the patient might experience side effects like hypertension, headache, tremor, palpitations, chest pain, or irregular heartbeat. Patients should be closely monitored if use together is unavoidable.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD and weight loss, non-prescription nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants, and weight loss dietary supplements containing Ephedra. Although sympathomimetics are contraindicated for use with other non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. One case of elevated blood pressure has been reported in a patient during concurrent use of the recommended dose of rasagiline and ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline. One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of another MAO-B inhibitor, selegiline, in combination with ephedrine. It should be noted that the MAO-B selectivity of rasagiline decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose and interactions with sympathomimetics may be more likely to occur at these higher doses.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Riociguat: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with riociguat. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including riociguat. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phendimetrazine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phendimetrazine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should also be used when salmeterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) The product label for phendimetrazine contraindicates use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk of hypertensive crisis. Selegiline is a selective monoamine oxidase inhibitor type B; however, the selectivity of the drug decreases with increasing doses. The manufacturers of selegiline products recommend caution and monitoring of blood pressure during concurrent use with sympathomimetics. Phendimetrazine should generally not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Selexipag: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics, such as sevoflurane, sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, such as phendimetrazine. Chronic use of sympathomimetics prior to halogenated anesthetics may result in cardiac arrhythmias. Phendimetrazine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery using halogenated anesthetics.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) St. John's wort, Hypericum Perforatum may reduce the neuronal uptake of monoamines and should be used cautiously with sympathomimetics.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Terazosin: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Terbutaline: (Major) Concomitant use of sympathomimetics with beta-agonists might result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with some sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation and effects such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia. Seizures or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation manifested by skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Treprostinil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with treprostinil. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including treprostinil. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Avoid use of tricyclic antidepressants with phendimetrazine whenever possible. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may potentiate the pressor response to sympathomimetic agents, such as phendimetrazine. TCAs inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in adrenergic neurons, resulting in increased stimulation of adrenergic receptors. Clinically, the patient might experience side effects like hypertension, headache, tremor, palpitations, chest pain, or irregular heartbeat. Patients should be closely monitored if use together is unavoidable.
Trimipramine: (Major) Avoid use of tricyclic antidepressants with phendimetrazine whenever possible. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may potentiate the pressor response to sympathomimetic agents, such as phendimetrazine. TCAs inhibit norepinephrine reuptake in adrenergic neurons, resulting in increased stimulation of adrenergic receptors. Clinically, the patient might experience side effects like hypertension, headache, tremor, palpitations, chest pain, or irregular heartbeat. Patients should be closely monitored if use together is unavoidable.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Vasopressors: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Patients can develop tolerance to the anorectic effect of phendimetrazine within a few weeks. The mechanism of tolerance appears to be pharmacodynamic in nature; higher doses of phendimetrazine are required to produce the same response. When tolerance develops to the anorexiant effects, it is generally recommended that phendimetrazine be discontinued rather than the dose increased. The maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded.Anorexigens have been reported to be associated with the occurrence of serious regurgitant cardiac valvular disease, including disease of the mitral, aortic, and/or tricuspid valves. Primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH), a rare, frequently fatal disease of the lungs, has also been found to occur with increased frequency in patients receiving anorexigens. There have been reports of PPH and valvular irregularities (cardiac valvulopathy) in patients receiving phendimetrazine, all of which had a history of using at least one other anorexigen. The initial symptom of PPH is usually dyspnea. Other initial symptoms include: angina pectoris, syncope, or peripheral edema. Patients should be advised to report immediately any deterioration in exercise tolerance. Phendimetrazine should be discontinued in patients who develop new, unexplained symptoms of dyspnea, angina pectoris or chest pain (unspecified), syncope, or peripheral edema. No case of cardiac valvulopathy has been reported when phendimetrazine was used alone.Other adverse reactions that may occur or have been reported with phendimetrazine include abdominal pain, agitation, blurred vision, constipation, diaphoresis, diarrhea, dizziness, dyskinesia, dysphoria, dysuria, euphoria, flushing, headache, hypertension, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, insomnia, libido decrease, libido increase, mydriasis, nausea/vomiting, ocular irritation, overstimulation, palpitations, psychosis (rare) at recommended doses, restlessness, sinus tachycardia, tremor, and xerostomia.Abuse of phendimetrazine may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction. In some cases, patients have increased the dose of phendimetrazine several times that recommended. Abrupt withdrawal of phendimetrazine after prolonged high doses may result in extreme fatigue or mental depression; sleep EEG changes have also been noted. Signs and symptoms of chronic use of anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses, marked insomnia, irritability, hyperactivity, and personality changes. Psychosis or hallucinations, which can often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia, is the most severe manifestation of chronic intoxication.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    tolerance
    General Information
    Patients can develop tolerance to the anorectic effect of phendimetrazine within a few weeks. The mechanism of tolerance appears to be pharmacodynamic in nature; higher doses of phendimetrazine are required to produce the same response. When tolerance develops to the anorexiant effects, it is generally recommended that phendimetrazine be discontinued rather than the dose increased. The maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    cardiac valvulopathy, hypertension, palpitations, pulmonary hypertension, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Cardiac valvulopathy has been associated with the use of some anorectic agents, such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. Possible contributing factors include use for extended periods of time, higher than recommended dose, and/or use in combination with other anorectic drugs. An echocardiogram during treatment could be useful for detecting any valvular disorders which may occur. In a case-control epidemiological study, the use of anorectic agents, including phendimetrazine, was associated with an increased risk of developing pulmonary hypertension, a rare, but often fatal disorder. The use of anorectic agents for longer than 3 months was associated with a 23-fold increase in the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension. Increased risk of pulmonary hypertension with repeated courses of therapy cannot be excluded. The onset or aggravation of exertional dyspnea, or unexplained symptoms of angina pectoris, syncope, or lower extremity edema suggest the possibility of occurrence of pulmonary hypertension. Under these circumstances, immediately discontinue phendimetrazine, and evaluate for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension. Carefully assess the potential risk of possible serious adverse effects such as valvular heart disease and pulmonary hypertension against the potential benefit of weight loss. In addition, phendimetrazine has been associated with other cardiac adverse events including palpitations, sinus tachycardia, hypertension, and ischemic events.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac valvulopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, agitation, blurred vision, constipation, diarrhea, dizziness, dyskinesia, dysphoria, dysuria, euphoria, flushing, headache, hyperhidrosis, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, insomnia, libido decrease, libido increase, mydriasis, nausea, ocular irritation, psychosis, restlessness, tremor, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Other adverse reactions that may occur or have been reported with phendimetrazine include abdominal pain, agitation, blurred vision, constipation, hyperhidrosis (sweating), diarrhea, dizziness, dyskinesia, dysphoria, dysuria, euphoria, flushing, headache, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, insomnia, libido decrease, libido increase, mydriasis, nausea/vomiting, ocular irritation, overstimulation, psychosis (rare) at recommended doses, restlessness, tremor, and xerostomia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mydriasis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression, EEG changes, fatigue, irritability, psychological dependence, withdrawal
    General Information
    Abuse of phendimetrazine may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction. In some cases, patients have increased the dose of phendimetrazine several times that recommended. Abrupt withdrawal of phendimetrazine after prolonged high doses may result in extreme fatigue or mental depression; sleep EEG changes have also been noted. Signs and symptoms of chronic use of anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses, marked insomnia, irritability, hyperactivity, and personality changes. Psychosis or hallucinations, which can often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia, is the most severe manifestation of chronic intoxication.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      EEG changes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Phendimetrazine is an oral, centrally-acting stimulant and sympathomimetic amine. It is used as an adjunct to lifestyle modifications for the short-term treatment (i.e., a few weeks) of exogenous obesity. The pharmacologic effects of phendimetrazine are similar to amphetamines. Similar to amphetamines, phendimetrazine can induce or exacerbate psychiatric symptoms (e.g., mania or psychosis), and is contraindicated in patients with a history of substance abuse due to abuse and addiction potential. According to the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and American College of Endocrinology (AACE/ACE) Obesity Clinical Practice Guidelines, short-term pharmacotherapy, such as with phendimetrazine, has not been shown to produce longer-term health benefits in obese and overweight patients and cannot be generally recommended. Phendimetrazine should not be used for long-term weight management; tolerance to the anorectic effect of stimulants has been demonstrated. Phendimetrazine was approved by the FDA in 1961.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mechanism of Action: Similar to amphetamines, phendimetrazine increases the release of norepinephrine and dopamine from nerve terminals and inhibits their reuptake. Clinical effects include CNS stimulation and elevation of blood pressure. Appetite suppression is believed to occur through direct stimulation of the satiety center in the hypothalamic and limbic region.Tolerance to the anorexiant effects of phendimetrazine usually develops within a few weeks of starting therapy. The mechanism of tolerance appears to be pharmacodynamic in nature; higher doses of phendimetrazine are required to produce the same response. When tolerance develops to the anorexiant effects, it is generally recommended that phendimetrazine be discontinued rather than the dose increased.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Phendimetrazine is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. The absorption half-life is approximately the same for both regular-release and sustained-release formulations. This indicates a similar onset of action between sustained-release and regular-release dosage forms. The duration of action for regular-release forms is about 4 hours; the duration is prolonged for sustained-release formulations.
  Text
  Phendimetrazine is administered orally. 
 
Once in the systemic circulation, some of the drug is metabolized to phenmetrazine and phendimetrazine-N-oxide. The main route of elimination for unchanged drug and metabolites is the kidneys.  The average elimination half-life for regular-release forms is about 1.9 hours and 9.8 hours for sustained-release forms.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Immediate-release capsules or tablets:
Administer 1 hour before meals.
 
Extended-release capsules:
Administer once daily 30 to 60 minutes before the morning meal.
Swallow whole; do not chew, divide, or crush.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    210 mg/day PO for immediate-release formulation; 105 mg/day PO for extended-release formulation.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    210 mg/day PO for immediate-release formulation; 105 mg/day PO for extended-release formulation.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    17 years: 105 mg/day PO for extended-release formulation; safety and efficacy of the immediate-release formulation have not been established.
16 years and younger: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines or data on use in hepatic impairment are not available.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustment in renal impairment are not available; however, because phendimetrazine and its metabolites are excreted renally, use caution when administering to patients with renal impairment.
