=== Anthrax Vaccine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2708)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Anthrax vaccine is a noninfectious vaccine developed from an avirulent, nonencapsulated strain of Bacillus anthracis.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 0.5 mL/dose IM or subcutaneously.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): edema, erythema, injection site reaction, pruritus, anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, arthralgia, chills, dizziness, erythema multiforme, fever, headache, malaise, myalgia, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome, urticaria, alopecia, autoimmune disease, breast cancer, colitis, fatigue, pseudotumor cerebri, seizures, flushing, influenza, insomnia, lymphadenopathy, paresthesias

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Administer anthrax vaccine, adsorbed (Biothrax) cautiously to patients with a possible history of latex hypersensitivity because the vial stopper contains dry natural rubber.

ANTHRAX VACCINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Biothrax

Indication Specific Dosing

General dosing information:
The anthrax vaccine is only recommended for high-risk groups (e.g., laboratory workers who work with high concentrations of B. anthracis; industry workers such as farmers, veterinarians, and livestock handlers who may handle infected animals or contaminated animal products; US military personnel deployed to areas designated as high risk for exposure; and some persons involved in emergency response activities).
Routine immunization of the general population is not recommended.
Groups at risk for repeated exposures to B. anthracis spores should be given priority for pre-exposure prophylaxis.
For post-exposure prophylaxis, a recommended course of antibiotic treatment should be initiated. If the anthrax vaccine is administered post-exposure, the length of antibiotic therapy may be shortened.


For anthrax prophylaxis

For pre-exposure anthrax prophylaxis in those with potential exposure risk
Intramuscular dosage (BioThrax)
Adults 18 to 65 years


0.5 mL IM at 0, 1, and 6 months (total of 3 doses for primary series). Persons are not considered protected until after completion of the 3-dose series. Booster doses of 0.5 mL IM are recommended at 6 and 12 months after completion of the primary series. Additional booster doses of 0.5 mL IM may be given annually for those who remain at high exposure risk. For those who have completed the series and are not at high risk, booster doses of 0.5 mL IM may be given every 3 years. Interruption of the vaccination schedule does not require restarting the entire series or the addition of extra doses. Optimal schedule for catch up of missed or delayed booster doses is not known.


Subcutaneous dosage (BioThrax)
Adults 18 to 65 years


0.5 mL subcutaneously at 0, 2, and 4 weeks and 6 months (total of 4 doses for primary series). Persons are not considered protected until after completion of the 4-dose series. Booster doses of 0.5 mL subcutaneously are recommended at 6 and 12 months after completion of the primary series. Additional booster doses of 0.5 mL subcutaneously may be given annually for those who remain at high exposure risk. For those who have completed the series and are not at high risk, booster doses of 0.5 mL subcutaneously may be given every 3 years. Interruption of the vaccination schedule does not require restarting the entire series or the addition of extra doses. Optimal schedule for catch up of missed or delayed booster doses is not known.


For postexposure anthrax prophylaxis after suspected or confirmed exposure in combination with appropriate antibacterial drugs
Subcutaneous or Intramuscular† dosage (BioThrax)
Adults 66 years and older†


0.5 mL subcutaneously or IM at 0, 2, and 4 weeks. If demand exceeds supply, alternative dose-sparing regimens may be needed. Two 0.5 mL doses at 0 and either 2 or 4 weeks or three 0.25 mL doses at 0, 2, and 4 weeks may be given. The anthrax vaccine is only available for postexposure prophylaxis at the time of an event under appropriate emergency use regulatory provisions.


Adults 18 to 65 years


0.5 mL subcutaneously or IM at 0, 2, and 4 weeks. If demand exceeds supply, alternative dose-sparing regimens may be needed. Two 0.5 mL doses at 0 and either 2 or 4 weeks or three 0.25 mL doses at 0, 2, and 4 weeks may be given.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents 6 weeks to 17 years†


0.5 mL subcutaneously or IM at 0, 2, and 4 weeks. If demand exceeds supply, alternative dose-sparing regimens may be needed. Two 0.5 mL doses at 0 and either 2 or 4 weeks or three 0.25 mL doses at 0, 2, and 4 weeks may be given. The anthrax vaccine is only available for postexposure prophylaxis at the time of an event under appropriate emergency use regulatory provisions.


Intramuscular dosage (Cyfendus)
Adults 18 to 65 years


0.5 mL IM at 0 and 2 weeks.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Administer anthrax vaccine, adsorbed (Biothrax) cautiously to patients with a possible history of latex hypersensitivity because the vial stopper contains dry natural rubber. The vial stoppers for Cyfendus vaccine are not made with natural rubber latex.

immunosuppression


Patients with significant immunosuppression may not have an adequate antibody response to the anthrax vaccine.  Immunosuppressed persons may include patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), hypogammaglobulinemia, agammaglobulinemia, altered immune states due to generalized neoplastic disease (i.e., leukemia or lymphoma), or an immune system compromised by radiation therapy or drug therapy (i.e., chemotherapy or corticosteroid therapy with greater than physiologic doses). Short-term (less than 2 weeks) corticosteroid therapy or intra-articular, bursal, or tendon injections with corticosteroids should not be immunosuppressive.


pregnancy


The anthrax vaccine may cause fetal harm. Do not vaccinate pregnant individuals against anthrax unless the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks to the fetus. In a large observational study (n = 37,140), birth defects were more common in children born to individuals vaccinated with BioThrax in the first trimester (4.68%) compared to those vaccinated post pregnancy (3.85%; odds ratio = 1.20, 95% confidence interval: 1.005, 1.43) or those never vaccinated (4.03%; odds ratio = 1.2, 95% confidence interval: 1.02, 1.42). During a pregnancy exposure registry, 2 infants with major birth defects (2.2%) were reported out of 91 individuals who received BioThrax, the majority of exposures were in the first trimester (n = 89). There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of Cyfendus in pregnant individuals. BioThrax contains the same active ingredient as Cyfendus, but does not contain CPG 7909 adjuvant.


breast-feeding


There are no available data to assess the anthrax vaccine's presence in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. According to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), inactivated vaccines pose no risk to breast-feeding individuals or their child during breast-feeding. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


The anthrax vaccine may cause fetal harm. Do not vaccinate pregnant individuals against anthrax unless the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks to the fetus. In a large observational study (n = 37,140), birth defects were more common in children born to individuals vaccinated with BioThrax in the first trimester (4.68%) compared to those vaccinated post pregnancy (3.85%; odds ratio = 1.20, 95% confidence interval: 1.005, 1.43) or those never vaccinated (4.03%; odds ratio = 1.2, 95% confidence interval: 1.02, 1.42). During a pregnancy exposure registry, 2 infants with major birth defects (2.2%) were reported out of 91 individuals who received BioThrax, the majority of exposures were in the first trimester (n = 89). There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of Cyfendus in pregnant individuals. BioThrax contains the same active ingredient as Cyfendus, but does not contain CPG 7909 adjuvant.


Interactions

Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Anifrolumab: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Atacicept: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as atacicept, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Bimekizumab: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least two weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Corticosteroids (systemic): (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Deucravacitinib: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished vaccine response. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least two weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Deuruxolitinib: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as deuruxolitinib, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Icotrokinra: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as icotrokinra, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Ocrelizumab: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before ocrelizumab initiation, whenever possible. Ocrelizumab may interfere with the effectiveness of non-live virus vaccines. Attenuated antibody responses to tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine, pneumococcal polysaccharide and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, and seasonal influenza vaccine were observed in patients exposed to ocrelizumab at the time of vaccination during an open-label study. Infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy may receive non-live vaccines as indicated before B-cell recovery; however, consider assessing the immune response to the vaccine. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Ofatumumab: (Major) Administer all needed non-live vaccines according to immunization guidelines at least 2 weeks before initiation of ofatumumab. Ofatumumab may interfere with the effectiveness of inactivated vaccines due to its actions, which cause B-cell depletion.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Satralizumab: (Major) Administer all non-live vaccines according to immunization guidelines at least 2 weeks before initiation of satralizumab.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Administer all non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks before siponimod initiation, whenever possible. Vaccines may be less effective if given during siponimod treatment. Patients should be considered unimmunized if vaccinated within a 14-day period before starting immunosuppresive therapy or during immunosuppressive therapy, and should they be revaccinated at least 3 months after therapy is discontinued if immune competence is restored.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Ublituximab: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to non-live vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least two weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Vamorolone: (Moderate) Patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy may have a diminished response to vaccines. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 2 weeks after discontinuation. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving high-dose corticosteroids about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.


Adverse Reaction
edema, erythema, injection site reaction, pruritus


In general, anthrax vaccine, adsorbed is well tolerated. The most common reactions tend to be local and self-limiting in nature. Injection site reactions were reported in 93% to 94.9% of patients receiving vaccination. Tenderness (overall incidence, 88.1% to 89.9%; grade 3 incidence, 0.8% to 1.7%), pain (overall incidence, 86.3% to 87.9%; grade 3 incidence, 0.9% to 2.1%), arm motion limitation (overall incidence, 51.4% to 63.7%; grade 3 incidence, 0.4% to 1.7%), warmth (overall incidence, 51.2% to 68.7%; grade 3 incidence, 0.2% to 0.7%), induration (overall incidence, 37.5% to 75.5%; grade 3 incidence, 0.3% to 1.1%), itching (overall incidence, 21.9% to 58.8%; grade 3 incidence, 0.4% to 0.8%), swelling (overall incidence, 19.7% to 55.4%; grade 3 incidence, 0.4% to 1.3%), erythema or redness (overall incidence, 17.9% to 53.9%; grade 3 incidence, 0.9% to 1.9%), bruising (overall incidence, 17.2% to 34.9%; grade 3 incidence, 0.3%). Roughly 30% of BioThrax vaccinees develop a reaction consisting of 1 to 2 cm of minor erythema with localized tenderness that tends to subside within 48 hours. Moderate local inflammatory reactions (greater than 5 cm), some with pruritus, occurred in 4% of recipients with the second injection. Moderate local reactions may occur in anyone with a previous history of anthrax infection. Subcutaneous nodules and arm motion limitation may also occur. More severe local reactions, consisting of extensive forearm edema and inflammation occur in less than 1% of vaccinees. Local reactions tend to increase in severity until the fifth injection, then may subside with subsequent doses. All local reactions have been shown to be reversible. A study (n = 1,564 healthy patients) comparing the safety of intramuscular (IM) administration with subcutaneous administration of anthrax vaccine, absorbed for pre-exposure prophylaxis resulted in a statistically significant reduction in cutaneous adverse reactions when administered via the IM route. Injection site adverse reactions consistently occurred at lower frequencies and for shorter duration in participants given anthrax vaccine, absorbed by the IM route. In an open-label study evaluating the safety of anthrax vaccine, absorbed for pre-exposure prophylaxis, 15,907 doses were administered subcutaneously to 7,000 at risk individuals. In terms of doses administered, 8.63% of the 15,907 doses reported mild local reactions (erythema only or an induration less than 30 mm), 0.94% reported moderate local reactions (edema or induration greater than 30 mm and less than 120 mm), and 0.15% of doses administered caused severe local reactions (edema or induration greater than 120 mm or accompanied by marked limitation of arm motion or axillary node tenderness). Localized reactions (tenderness, warmth, erythema, induration, and subcutaneous nodules) are more common after subcutaneous administration than IM administration and occur more frequently in women (60%) than in men (30%). It is not known why women report higher rates of local reactions than men. Women also report more systemic adverse reactions than men, but these gender differences were not influenced by route of administration. No patterns of unexpected systemic or local reactions have been identified. In a study evaluating the subcutaneous administration of anthrax vaccine, absorbed for post-exposure prophylaxis (n = 200 healthy patients), the most common adverse reactions reported 7 days after each vaccination comprised localized reactions, including symptoms of lump, tenderness, and erythema.


anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, anorexia, arthralgia, chills, dizziness, erythema multiforme, fever, headache, malaise, myalgia, nausea, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria, vomiting


In the open-label safety study involving 15,907 subcutaneously administered doses of anthrax vaccine, only 4 cases of transient systemic reactions (less than 0.06% of doses administered) were reported during the 5-year study period. This value of 0.06% is unusually low, compared to other vaccines and compared to data collection with the licensed anthrax vaccine. The US Department of Defense evaluation of safety in the Anthrax vaccination program notes that from 5% to 35% of vaccinees may notice systemic reactions. Reactions may manifest as rash (16%) or urticaria (16%), headache (overall incidence, 14% to 58%; severe, 2.1% to 3.2%), arthralgia (12% to 15%), malaise (6% to 17%), myalgia (overall incidence, 3% to 75.2%; severe, 1.9% to 3.5%), nausea (3% to 9%) vomiting (3% to 9%), chills (2% to 6%), and fever (overall incidence, 1% to 6.8%; severe, 0.4% to 0.7%). Anorexia or dizziness may also occur. In a trial of 200 patients receiving subcutaneous anthrax vaccine for post-exposure prophylaxis, headache (4%), fatigue (3.5%), skin hyperpigmentation (3.5%), decreased joint range of motion (2.5%), and myalgia (2.5%) were the most commonly reported systemic reactions. During postmarketing use, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, rash, urticaria, pruritus, erythema multiforme, anaphylactoid reactions, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, arthropathy, and rhabdomyolysis have been reported.  


alopecia, autoimmune disease, breast cancer, colitis, fatigue, pseudotumor cerebri, seizures


Eight serious events were reported with 6 patients and determined to be possibly related to the administration of BioThrax. They included a case of generalized allergic reaction, a case of ANA positive autoimmune disease or disorder manifesting as a moderate bilateral arthralgia of the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joints, a right shoulder supraspinatus tendon tear, a case of bilateral pseudotumor cerebri with bilateral disc edema, a case of generalized seizures and hospitalization for evaluation of hydrocephalus and endoscopic fluid ventriculostomy, and a case of bilateral ductal carcinoma of the breast (breast cancer). Three adverse events of autoimmune etiology occurred that were possibly related to Cyfendus administration. A case of ulcerative colitis occurred 208 days after Cyfendus administration, a case of chronic idiopathic urticaria occurred 76 days after Cyfendus administration, and a case of diffuse alopecia occurred 17 days after anthrax vaccine administration. Alopecia has also been reported during postmarketing use. Infrequent reports of multisystem disorders defined as chronic symptoms involving at least 2 of the following 3 categories: fatigue, mood-cognition, and musculoskeletal system were also received. 


flushing, influenza, insomnia, lymphadenopathy, paresthesias, syncope, tremor


Lymphadenopathy, paresthesias, syncope, tremor, ulnar nerve neuropathy, pain, cellulitis, influenza-like symptoms, insomnia, and flushing have been reported during postmarketing use of anthrax vaccine.


Description

Anthrax vaccine is a noninfectious vaccine developed from an avirulent, nonencapsulated strain of Bacillus anthracis. The protective component of the vaccine is adsorbed to aluminum hydroxide. Anthrax vaccine, adsorbed contains no whole bacteria, dead or alive, and it is impossible to contract the disease from the vaccine. The precursor to anthrax vaccine, adsorbed was developed from a different strain of anthrax and was found to be 92.5% protective towards cutaneous anthrax in humans. Inhalation anthrax occurs too infrequently to assess the protective effect; a review of the Center for Disease Control data for the period 1962 to 1974 in at-risk industrial settings indicated that no inhalational cases occurred in fully immunized workers. BioThrax is FDA-approved for the active immunization for the prevention of disease caused by Bacillus anthracis in adults at high risk of exposure. It is also approved for post-exposure prophylaxis after suspected or confirmed Bacillus anthracis exposure, when administered in conjunction with recommended antibacterial drugs. Cyfendus is FDA-approved for post-exposure prophylaxis after suspected or confirmed Bacillus anthracis exposure, when administered in conjunction with recommended antibacterial drugs. Routine immunization of the general public is not recommended.

Mechanism Of Action

Active immunization with anthrax vaccine, adsorbed leads to production of antibodies that confer protection against anthrax infection. The vaccine is made from the filtrate of a nonencapsulated, attenuated strain of Bacillus anthracis. Anthrax vaccine, adsorbed contains three primary antigenic proteins: protective antigen (PA), edema factor (EF) and lethal factor (LF). PA, EF and LF are all proteins produced by B. anthracis that lead to exotoxin development and eventual onset of disease symptoms. PA assists the movement of EF and LF into the host cell. EF forces the hosts cell machinery into producing excessive cyclic AMP via alteration of calmodulin. Excess cyclic AMP leads to cell leakage and death. LF destroys the white blood cells brought in by the host cells. In the current vaccine, PA must be present for vaccine efficacy and is the most important immunogen. The anthrax vaccine also contains aluminum hydroxide to adsorb protective antigen (PA) and to serve as an adjuvant that will stimulate humoral but not cell-mediated immunity.

Pharmacokinetics

Anthrax vaccine, adsorbed is administered subcutaneously (BioThrax) or intramuscularly (BioThrax and Cyfendus). A significant number of patients rapidly develop an immune response to the anthrax vaccine, absorbed. Roughly 95% of vaccinees seroconvert with a 4-fold rise in antibody titers after 3 doses. In a study that measured IgG antibodies directed against anthrax protective antigen (PA), the serum IgG concentration was found to be 478 mcg/mL 8 weeks after 3 subcutaneous doses (0, 2, and 4 weeks). The study defined seroconversion as an anti-PA IgG concentration of 25 mcg/mL or greater. As a result of the quick response to the vaccine, interruption of the vaccination schedule does not require restarting the entire series or the addition of extra doses.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intramuscular Route

BioThrax
A study to examine the impact on immunogenicity of changing the administration route from subcutaneous to intramuscular resulted in similar outcomes. Patients were randomized to receive the anthrax vaccine, absorbed either subcutaneous or intramuscular at a dosing schedule of 0, 2, and 4 weeks and again at 6 months. At the 7-month follow-up examination, 100% of those patients receiving the IM vaccine had a 4-fold rise in antibody titers over baseline. Compared to the percentage of patients achieving a 4-fold rise in antibody titers in the subcutaneous study group (99.28%), the IM administration route proved to be non-inferior. This study also included a third study group to evaluate the change in antibody response resulting from decreasing the number of doses administered. The patients in this group were given IM anthrax vaccine, absorbed at 0, 1, and 6 months. The percentage of these patients to achieve a 4-fold increase in antibody titers at the 7-month follow-up was 99.27%. This result was determined to be non-inferior when compared to subcutaneous administration at weeks 0, 2, 4, and month 6.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Verify immunization status in the state or local immunization information system in addition to the health care electronic record. If this vaccine has been previously given, question the patient, parent, or guardian about any symptoms or signs of an adverse reaction.
Advise individuals on the benefits and risks of the vaccine. Provide a copy of the Vaccine Information Statement (VIS).
Record manufacturer, lot number, administration date, and the name and address of the person administering the vaccine.
Ensure supportive care, including epinephrine 1 mg/mL injection, is readily accessible in the event of a clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction.
Complete a Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) report if adverse events have been identified. The VAERS toll-free information line is 1-800-822-7967 and email address is info@vaers.org.


Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. The vaccine is a milky-white suspension. If the product appears discolored or has visible particulate matter, do NOT use.
Use as supplied; no dilution or reconstitution is necessary. The full recommended dose of the vaccine should be used.
Do not mix the vaccine with any other products.


Intramuscular Administration

BioThrax
For pre-exposure prophylaxis, IM administration is preferred. Although subcutaneous administration is preferred for post-exposure prophylaxis, IM administration may be used during a large-scale emergency response.
Shake the vial thoroughly to ensure that the suspension is homogeneous during withdrawal.
Administer intramuscularly into the deltoid muscle.
Storage: Store the multi-dose vial in a refrigerator between 2 and 8 degrees C (36 and 46 degrees F). Do not freeze. Once the multi-dose vial has been pierced, discard the vial after 28 days.
 
Cyfendus
Gently swirl or roll the vial to ensure that the vaccine is a homogeneous milky-white suspension. To avoid foaming, DO NOT shake.
Administer intramuscularly into the deltoid muscle.
Storage: Store the multi-dose vial in a refrigerator between 2 and 8 degrees C (36 and 46 degrees F). Once the multi-dose vial has been pierced, discard the vial after 28 days.


Subcutaneous Administration

BioThrax
Subcutaneous administration is preferred for post-exposure prophylaxis. Although IM administration is preferred for pre-exposure prophylaxis vaccination, subcutaneous administration may be used in persons who are at risk for hematoma formation.
Shake the vial thoroughly to ensure that the suspension is homogeneous during withdrawal.
Administer subcutaneously into the deltoid muscle.
Storage: Store the multi-dose vial in a refrigerator between 2 and 8 degrees C (36 and 46 degrees F). Do not freeze. Once the multi-dose vial has been pierced, discard the vial after 28 days.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

0.5 mL/dose IM or subcutaneously.

Geriatric

66 years and older: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, 0.5 mL/dose IM or subcutaneously has been recommended off-label for postexposure prophylaxis.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, 0.5 mL/dose IM or subcutaneously has been recommended off-label for postexposure prophylaxis.

Infants

6 weeks and older: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, 0.5 mL/dose IM or subcutaneously has been recommended off-label for postexposure prophylaxis.
1 to 5 weeks: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Biothrax Suspension for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier