=== Gefitinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2771)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Gefitinib is an oral, selective epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 250 mg per day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards), cough, dyspnea, fever, pneumonitis, pulmonary fibrosis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, blepharitis, conjunctivitis, corneal erosion, keratitis, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pruritus, visual impairment, xerophthalmia, cheilitis, dehydration, gi perforation, oral ulceration, bleeding, epistaxis, hematuria, hemorrhagic cystitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Cases of interstitial pulmonary disease have been observed in patients receiving gefitinib. Gefitinib-induced interstitial lung disease has occurred in patients who have received prior radiation therapy (31% of reported patients), prior chemotherapy (57% of reported patients), and no therapy (12%... Emetic risk: Pediatrics:

Brand Names
  - Iressa

Dosage Forms
  - Gefitinib 250mg Oral tablet
  - Iressa 250mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        250 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In a multicenter, single-arm, open-label clinical trial, patients with metastatic EGFR mutation positive NSCLC who received gefitinib (n = 106) had an objective response rate (ORR) of 50% for a median duration of 6 months by blinded independent central review (BICR), and an ORR of 70% for a median duration of 8.3 months by investigator assessment; complete responses occurred in 0.9% and 1.9% of patients, respectively. The results of this study were supported by an exploratory analysis of a subset of EGFR positive patients (15%) with metastatic NSCLC (adenocarcinoma) from a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial. In these patients, the median progression-free survival (PFS) by BICR was 10.9 months for a median duration of 9.6 months in patients receiving first-line treatment with gefitinib compared with PFS of 7.4 months for a median duration of 5.5 months in those who received carboplatin plus paclitaxel (HR 0.54; 95% CI, 0.38 to 0.79). The ORR was 67% versus 41%, respectively.
    Heading
    For the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients whose tumors have EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 (L858R) substitution mutations as detected by an FDA-approved test
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Dosage not established. Survival is not improved with gefitinib in this population. In a randomized, phase 3 trial in 486 patients, median overall survival (OS) was not improved with a daily dose of 250 mg (5.6 months) or 500 mg (6 months) compared with methotrexate (6.7 months). Additionally, significantly worse OS was reported with both doses of gefitinib compared with methotrexate therapy in a subgroup of patients who had platinum-resistant disease. Grade 3 to 5 tumor hemorrhage was reported in 4 patients (2.5%) who received gefitinib 250 mg per day and in 2 patients (1.2%) who received gefitinib 500 mg per day.
    Heading
    For the treatment of recurrent or metastatic squamous-cell head and neck cancer†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Cases of interstitial pulmonary disease have been observed in patients receiving gefitinib. Gefitinib-induced interstitial lung disease has occurred in patients who have received prior radiation therapy (31% of reported patients), prior chemotherapy (57% of reported patients), and no therapy (12% of reported patients). Patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis whose condition worsens while receiving gefitinib have been observed to have an increased mortality compared to those without idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. In the event of acute onset or worsening of pulmonary symptoms/respiratory insufficiency (e.g., dyspnea, cough, fever), gefitinib treatment should be interrupted and the symptoms promptly investigated. If interstitial pulmonary disease is confirmed, gefitinib therapy should be discontinued. Gefitinib has also been shown to increase the effects of radiation therapy.
 
Gefitinib exposure may be increased in patients with hepatic disease. In patients with liver metastases and moderately to severely elevated liver enzymes, gefitinib pharmacokinetics were similar to those of individuals without liver abnormalities. Gefitinib has been associated with elevated hepatic enzymes; therefore, periodic liver function (transaminases, bilirubin, and alkaline phosphatase) testing should be considered. If significant elevations in hepatic enzymes occur during treatment, discontinuation of gefitinib should be considered.
 
Gefitinib may cause symptoms consistent with ocular disease. Patients who develop an onset of new eye symptoms such as ocular pain should be evaluated and managed appropriately, including holding gefitinib therapy and removal of aberrant eyelash if present. After symptoms and ocular changes have resolved, a decision should be made regarding restarting gefitinib therapy.
 
Gefitinib is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category D and may cause harm to an unborn child if administered to a woman who is pregnant. There are no adequate studies in pregnant women using gefitinib. If gefitinib is used during pregnancy or if a patient becomes pregnant while receiving this drug, she should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus or the potential for the loss of the pregnancy. Females of child-bearing potential should be counseled regarding appropriate contraceptive options.
 
It is not known if gefitinib is excreted in human breast milk. In animal studies, levels of gefitinib and its metabolites were 11- to 19-fold higher in milk than in blood. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the nursing infant, women should be advised against breast-feeding while receiving gefitinib therapy.
 
The safe and effective use of gefitinib in children has not been established. In pediatric clinical trials of gefitinib alone or with radiation therapy for primary CNS tumors, CNS hemorrhage and death have been reported. A causal relationship has not been established due to the limited data available.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use gefitinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with gefitinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt gefitinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Monitor for an increase in the incidence and/or severity of treatment-related adverse reactions in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B; Child-Pugh class C). The systemic exposure to gefitinib is increased in these patients compared to those with normal hepatic function; data are not available for patients with hepatic failure. Periodically monitor liver function tests during treatment; an interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients who develop hepatotoxicity.
    Headline
    contact lenses, dry eye disease, keratitis
    General Information
    Use gefitinib with caution in patients with a history of keratitis, ulcerative keratitis, or severe dry eye disease. Keratitis has occurred in patients treated with gefitinib; patients who wear contact lenses are also at increased risk. Patients who develop an onset of new eye symptoms or visual disturbance such as ocular pain, inflammation, lacrimation, light sensitivity, blurred vision, and/or red eye should be evaluated and managed appropriately; an interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Gefitinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. A reduction in the number of live-born offspring was observed in pregnant rats treated with a dose approximately 0.2 times the human clinical dose on a mg/m2 basis. This effect was more severe when the rats were given doses approximately equivalent to the human clinical dose and was accompanied by high neonatal mortality soon after parturition. In rabbits, administration of a dose 2 times the recommended human dose was associated with decreased fetal weight. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk. The American Society of Clinical Oncology provides additional information on the use of certain medications for the management of cancer during pregnancy.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with gefitinib. Gefitinib can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking gefitinib and for at least 2 weeks after the last dose. Based on animal data, gefitinib may impair female fertility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking gefitinib. Gefitinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of gefitinib in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Gefitinib is present in the milk of lactating rats.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Gefitinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. A reduction in the number of live-born offspring was observed in pregnant rats treated with a dose approximately 0.2 times the human clinical dose on a mg/m2 basis. This effect was more severe when the rats were given doses approximately equivalent to the human clinical dose and was accompanied by high neonatal mortality soon after parturition. In rabbits, administration of a dose 2 times the recommended human dose was associated with decreased fetal weight. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk. The American Society of Clinical Oncology provides additional information on the use of certain medications for the management of cancer during pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking gefitinib. Gefitinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of gefitinib in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Gefitinib is present in the milk of lactating rats.

Interactions
Abiraterone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abiraterone is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and abiraterone is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased incidence of oxycodone-related adverse effects if gefitinib and oxycodone are used concomitantly. At high concentrations, gefitinib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, which is partially responsible for the metabolism of oxycodone. As < 15% of the total administered dose is metabolized by CYP2D6 to oxymorphone, concurrent use of some agents that inhibit CYP2D6 has not been shown to result in clinically significant interactions. However, potent inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as ritonavir, may potentially increase the effects of oxycodone. In patients with solid tumors, exposure to metoprolol, another CYP2D6 substrate, was increased by 30% when given on day 15 of gefitinib dosing (500 mg daily); the effect of gefitinib on CYP2D6-dependent drugs is only likely to be clinically relevant when given with CYP2D6 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index or that are individually dose titrated such as oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with adagrasib is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Gefitinib is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%. The mean exposure of gefitinib was 2-fold higher in healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers compared to extensive metabolizers.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of antacids with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next antacid dose. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of antacids with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next antacid dose. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of antacids with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next antacid dose. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of antacids with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next antacid dose. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of antacids with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next antacid dose. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of omeprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Antacids: (Major) Avoid coadministration of antacids with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next antacid dose. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Apalutamide: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. If apalutamide is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of gefitinib. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus gefitinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; gefitinib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium bicarbonate with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of sodium bicarbonate. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with high doses of ranitidine with sodium bicarbonate to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of omeprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased incidence of oxycodone-related adverse effects if gefitinib and oxycodone are used concomitantly. At high concentrations, gefitinib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, which is partially responsible for the metabolism of oxycodone. As < 15% of the total administered dose is metabolized by CYP2D6 to oxymorphone, concurrent use of some agents that inhibit CYP2D6 has not been shown to result in clinically significant interactions. However, potent inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as ritonavir, may potentially increase the effects of oxycodone. In patients with solid tumors, exposure to metoprolol, another CYP2D6 substrate, was increased by 30% when given on day 15 of gefitinib dosing (500 mg daily); the effect of gefitinib on CYP2D6-dependent drugs is only likely to be clinically relevant when given with CYP2D6 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index or that are individually dose titrated such as oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with atazanavir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with atazanavir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with berotralstat is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and berotralstat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with bupropion is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with bupropion is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Calcium Carbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of calcium carbonate. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of calcium carbonate. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%. (Moderate) Administer gefitinib at least 6 hours before or after an H2-receptor antagonist (H2RA), like famotidine. The gastric pH alterations associated with H2RAs may interfere with gefitinib absorption and reduce gefitinib bioavailability and efficacy. Coadministration with another H2RA and antacid to raise gastric pH above 5.0 reduced gefitinib overall exposure by 47%.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of calcium carbonate. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of calcium carbonate. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of calcium carbonate. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of calcium carbonate. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Capivasertib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capivasertib is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and capivasertib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with carbamazepine is necessary. If carbamazepine is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol, signs of opioid withdrawal, seizures, or serotonin syndrome if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary. If gefitinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate and gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use of tramadol with CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of tramadol and decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite M1. Since M1 is a more potent mu-opioid agonist, decreased M1 exposure could result in decreased therapeutic effects, and may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol. Increased tramadol exposure can result in increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and increased risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ceritinib is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with chloramphenicol is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cimetidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cimetidine with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of cimetidine. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with high doses of another H2-blocker to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Cinacalcet: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cinacalcet is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and cinacalcet is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Dacomitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dacomitinib is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with darunavir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with darunavir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with darunavir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dexlansoprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dexlansoprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of dexlansoprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with bupropion is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with quinidine is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and quinidine is strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and dronedarone is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with duloxetine is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and duloxetine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with eliglustat is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and eliglustat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Encorafenib: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with encorafenib is necessary. If encorafenib is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed seven days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with enzalutamide is necessary. If enzalutamide is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with escitalopram is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and escitalopram is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of esomeprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of esomeprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Famotidine: (Moderate) Administer gefitinib at least 6 hours before or after an H2-receptor antagonist (H2RA), like famotidine. The gastric pH alterations associated with H2RAs may interfere with gefitinib absorption and reduce gefitinib bioavailability and efficacy. Coadministration with another H2RA and antacid to raise gastric pH above 5.0 reduced gefitinib overall exposure by 47%.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fedratinib is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and fedratinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fluoxetine is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and fluoxetine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fosamprenavir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with fosphenytoin is necessary. If fosphenytoin is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Administer gefitinib at least 6 hours before or after an H2-receptor antagonist (H2RA), like famotidine. The gastric pH alterations associated with H2RAs may interfere with gefitinib absorption and reduce gefitinib bioavailability and efficacy. Coadministration with another H2RA and antacid to raise gastric pH above 5.0 reduced gefitinib overall exposure by 47%.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with idelalisib is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with itraconazole is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with itraconazole increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Lansoprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lansoprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of lansoprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lansoprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of lansoprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of gefitinib may occur if given with letermovir. Closely monitor for gefitinib-related adverse reactions in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, because the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Gefitinib is predominately metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent administration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean exposure of gefitinib by 80%.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. If lumacaftor; ivacaftor is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. If lumacaftor; ivacaftor is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of antacids with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next antacid dose. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Magnesium Salts: (Major) Avoid coadministration of antacids with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next antacid dose. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with chronic mifepristone therapy is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mirabegron is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and mirabegron is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Mitotane: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with mitotane is necessary. If mitotane is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of esomeprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of esomeprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with nefazodone is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with nelfinavir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Niraparib; Abiraterone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abiraterone is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and abiraterone is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Nizatidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nizatidine with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of nizatidine. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with high doses of an H2-blocker to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fluoxetine is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and fluoxetine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of omeprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of omeprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of omeprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%. (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium bicarbonate with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of sodium bicarbonate. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with high doses of ranitidine with sodium bicarbonate to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased incidence of oxycodone-related adverse effects if gefitinib and oxycodone are used concomitantly. At high concentrations, gefitinib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, which is partially responsible for the metabolism of oxycodone. As < 15% of the total administered dose is metabolized by CYP2D6 to oxymorphone, concurrent use of some agents that inhibit CYP2D6 has not been shown to result in clinically significant interactions. However, potent inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as ritonavir, may potentially increase the effects of oxycodone. In patients with solid tumors, exposure to metoprolol, another CYP2D6 substrate, was increased by 30% when given on day 15 of gefitinib dosing (500 mg daily); the effect of gefitinib on CYP2D6-dependent drugs is only likely to be clinically relevant when given with CYP2D6 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index or that are individually dose titrated such as oxycodone.
Panobinostat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with panobinostat is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and panobinostat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Pantoprazole: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of pantoprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of pantoprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib- and paroxetine-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, if coadministration is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs; the risk of gefitinib-related adverse reactions is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor; paroxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism. Coadministration with a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor increased paroxetine overall exposure by 50%.
Pentosan: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in thrombocytopenic patients receiving antineoplastic agents in combination with anticoagulants.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with phenobarbital is necessary. If phenobarbital is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with phenobarbital is necessary. If phenobarbital is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for clinical response of gefitinib if used concomitantly with topiramate. Gefitinib is metabolized significantly by CYP3A4 and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer; coadministration may increase gefitinib metabolism and decrease gefitinib concentrations. This also applies to combination products containing topiramate, such as phentermine; topiramate. While the manufacturer has provided no guidance regarding the use of gefitinib with mild or moderate CYP3A4 inducers, administration of a single 500 mg gefitinib dose with a concurrent strong CYP3A4 inducer (rifampin) resulted in reduced mean AUC of gefitinib by 83%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with phenytoin is necessary. If phenytoin is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pimozide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary. Pimozide is a CYP2D6 substrate with a narrow therapeutic range and gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. While the manufacturer has provided no guidance regarding pimozide use with mild or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors, concurrent use of the drug with more potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 is contraindicated. Elevated concentrations of pimozide can lead to QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with posaconazole is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Primidone: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with primidone is necessary. If primidone is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with propafenone is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and propafenone is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with quinidine is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and quinidine is strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with quinine is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and quinine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
RABEprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rabeprazole with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 12 hours after the last dose or 12 hours before the next dose of rabeprazole. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ranolazine is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and ranolazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with relacorilant is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with rifampin is necessary. If rifampin is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with rifapentine is necessary. If rifapentine is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed seven days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Rolapitant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rolapitant is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and rolapitant is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with saquinavir is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium bicarbonate with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of sodium bicarbonate. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with high doses of ranitidine with sodium bicarbonate to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with St John's Wort is necessary. If St John's Wort is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and St John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Terbinafine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with terbinafine is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and terbinafine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of gefitinib and thioridazine is contraindicated; exposure to gefitinib may also increase. Thioridazine is a CYP2D6 substrate and gefitinib is a weak-to-moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the risk of serious, potentially fatal, cardiac arrhythmias, such as torsades de pointes (TdP)-type arrhythmias. Additionally, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and thioridazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with tipranavir is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is also metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and tipranavir is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for clinical response of gefitinib if used concomitantly with topiramate. Gefitinib is metabolized significantly by CYP3A4 and topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer; coadministration may increase gefitinib metabolism and decrease gefitinib concentrations. This also applies to combination products containing topiramate, such as phentermine; topiramate. While the manufacturer has provided no guidance regarding the use of gefitinib with mild or moderate CYP3A4 inducers, administration of a single 500 mg gefitinib dose with a concurrent strong CYP3A4 inducer (rifampin) resulted in reduced mean AUC of gefitinib by 83%.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol, signs of opioid withdrawal, seizures, or serotonin syndrome if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary. If gefitinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate and gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use of tramadol with CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of tramadol and decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite M1. Since M1 is a more potent mu-opioid agonist, decreased M1 exposure could result in decreased therapeutic effects, and may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol. Increased tramadol exposure can result in increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and increased risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol, signs of opioid withdrawal, seizures, or serotonin syndrome if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary. If gefitinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate and gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use of tramadol with CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of tramadol and decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite M1. Since M1 is a more potent mu-opioid agonist, decreased M1 exposure could result in decreased therapeutic effects, and may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol. Increased tramadol exposure can result in increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and increased risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gefitinib is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; gefitinib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with tucatinib is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gefitinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of gefitinib reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gefitinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of gefitinib reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gefitinib and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of gefitinib reducing its efficacy. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voriconazole is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Regularly monitor INR regularly and watch carefully for signs and symptoms of bleeding if gefitinib and warfarin are used concomitantly. Elevated INR and/or hemorrhage have been reported in some patients taking warfarin while on gefitinib therapy.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Common adverse reactions to gefitinib (250 mg) during clinical trials included diarrhea (49%), rash (unspecified) (44%), acne/acneiform rash (25%), xerosis (dry skin) (13%), nausea/vomiting (13%/12%), pruritus (8%), anorexia (7%), asthenia/weakness (6%), and weight loss (3%). Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient. Generally, adverse events occurred within the first month of treatment and usually were mild to moderate in severity. The 500 mg dose showed a higher incidence of these reactions. Treatment with loperamide may help control gefitinib-induced diarrhea. The skin rash may be an indication of the drugs antitumor activity. The rash usually appears from 2—14 days of beginning treatment. Higher dosages have been associated with a more rapid onset of rash. Patients with poorly controlled diarrhea (sometimes associated with dehydration) or skin adverse reactions may be successfully managed with a brief interruption in therapy (up to 14 days). Other adverse events reported at an incidence of 1% in patients who received either 250 or 500 mg gefitinib as monotherapy during clinical trials included the following: peripheral edema (2%), amblyopia (2%), dyspnea (2%), conjunctivitis (1%), vesicular rash/bullous rash (1%), and oral ulceration/stomatitis (1%). In a study of head and neck squamous cell cancer patients, 3 patients developed cellulitis at sites of active skin involvement during gefitinib therapy; the findings consisted of inflammation and erythema. In addition, 3 patients experienced bleeding at disease sites while receiving therapy. One of these events was fatal, while another required transfusions. Both of these patients had tumor shrinkage radiographically.Interstitial lung disease, consisting of interstitial pneumonia, pneumonitis, and alveolitis, has been associated with the use of gefitinib with an overall incidence of 1%. Approximately one-third of the cases have been fatal. In Japan, where the drug was first approved and widely used, a study of 3322 lung cancer patients treated with gefitinib found that 5.8% of these patients developed interstitial pneumonia within 8 weeks of starting treatment, with a mortality rate of 2.3% due to pneumonia. In the US expanded access program the incidence has been about 0.3%, and about 1% in studies of gefitinib as first-line therapy in non-small cell lung cancer but the incidence was similar between treatment and placebo groups. Patients often present with acute onset dyspnea, sometimes associated with cough or low-grade fever; the symptoms often become severe quickly and require hospitalization. Gefitinib-induced interstitial lung disease has occurred in patients who have received prior radiation therapy (31% of reported patients), prior chemotherapy (57% of reported patients), and no therapy (12% of reported patients). Patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis whose condition worsens while receiving gefitinib have been observed to have an increased mortality compared to those without idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. In the event of acute onset or worsening of pulmonary symptoms (e.g., dyspnea, cough, fever), gefitinib treatment should be interrupted and the symptoms promptly investigated. If interstitial lung disease is confirmed, gefitinib therapy should be discontinued.Asymptomatic elevated hepatic enzymes have been observed in patients receiving gefitinib. Discontinuation of gefitinib therapy should be considered if significant elevations in hepatic enzymes occur.In patients receiving gefitinib, there have been reports of ocular pain and corneal erosion/ulcer, sometimes in association with aberrant eyelash growth. Patients who develop onset of new eye symptoms such as pain should be evaluated and managed appropriately, including holding gefitinib therapy and removal of aberrant eyelash if present. After symptoms and eye changes have resolved, a decision should be made regarding restarting gefitinib therapy. There have been very rare reports of corneal membrane sloughing, ocular ischemia, and ocular hemorrhage.There have been rare reports of pancreatitis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, and allergic reactions including angioedema and urticaria.Data from non-clinical (in vitro and in vivo) studies indicate that gefitinib has the potential to inhibit the cardiac action potential repolarization process (e.g., cause QT prolongation). The clinical relevance of these findings is not known.In clinical trials of gefitinib alone or with radiation therapy in pediatric patients with primary CNS tumors, cases of intracranial bleeding and death have been reported. There are insufficient data in pediatric patients to establish a causal relationship. There is no evidence to suggest an increased risk of cerebral hemorrhage in adult patients with non-small cell lung cancer treated with gefitinib.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), cough, dyspnea, fever, pneumonitis, pulmonary fibrosis
    General Information
    Interstitial lung disease (ILD) or ILD-like reactions (e.g., lung infiltration, pneumonitis, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), or pulmonary fibrosis) have been associated with the use of gefitinib with an overall incidence of 1.3% (grade 3 or higher, 0.7%) across clinical trials, including 3 fatalities. An exploratory exposure-response analysis showed an increase in the incidence of ILD with more than a 2-fold increase in gefitinib exposure. Fatal pneumonia occurred in 0.8% and fatal respiratory failure in 0.9% of patients treated with gefitinib in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial (n = 1,126), and fever was reported in 9% of patients across non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) clinical trials (n = 2,462). Interrupt therapy in patients who develop acute onset or worsening of pulmonary symptoms (e.g., dyspnea, cough, fever); discontinue therapy if ILD is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity has been reported in patients treated with gefitinib, including fatalities in 0.04% of patients. Elevated hepatic enzymes, including increased ALT (all grade, 11.4%; grade 3 or higher, 5.1%), increased AST (all grade, 7.9%; grade 3 or higher, 3%), and hyperbilirubinemia (all grade, 2.7%; grade 3 or higher, 0.7%) were reported in patients who received gefitinib across clinical trials. Increased transaminases were reported more frequently in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind clinical trial comparing gefitinib with placebo in patients receiving second- or third-line therapy for NSCLC, including increased ALT (all grade, 38% vs. 23%; grade 3 or 4, 2.4% vs. 1.4%) and increased AST (all grade, 40% vs. 25%; grade 3 or 4, 2% vs. 1.3%). Periodically monitor liver function tests; an interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    blepharitis, conjunctivitis, corneal erosion, keratitis, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pruritus, visual impairment, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Ocular disorders or visual impairment including conjunctivitis, blepharitis, and xerophthalmia (6.7%); corneal erosion and aberrant eyelash growth (0.2%); and keratitis (0.1%) have been reported across clinical trials in patients treated with gefitinib (n = 2,462); grade 3 ocular disorders occurred in 0.1% of patients. In a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial, the grouped term of conjunctivitis/blepharitis/dry eye (including conjunctival hyperemia, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pruritus, eyelid edema, eyelid irritation, and eyelid pruritus) occurred in 6% of patients treated with gefitinib (n = 1,126) compared with 3.2% of those who received placebo (n = 562); all events were grade 1 or 2. Interrupt or discontinue gefitinib for severe or worsening ocular disorders.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      corneal erosion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      blepharitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      keratitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ocular inflammation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, acneiform rash, bullous rash, erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, folliculitis, maculopapular rash, onycholysis, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, vasculitis, vesicular rash, xerosis
    General Information
    Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and erythema multiforme have been reported with gefitinib therapy; erythema multiforme and dermatitis bullous occurred in 2 patients (0.08%) across non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) clinical trials (n = 2,462); palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) occurred in 0.2% of patients. An interruption or discontinuation of treatment is necessary for severe bullous rash or blistering, exfoliating conditions. Additionally, skin reactions (including acne vulgaris, acneiform rash, pustular acne, exfoliative dermatitis, drug eruption, xeroderma, xerosis, erythema, folliculitis, pruritus, rash, macular rash, maculopapular rash, pustular rash, vesicular rash) occurred in 47% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) of gefitinib-treated patients (n = 1,126) compared with 17% (grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) of those who received placebo (n = 562) in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of patients receiving 2nd or 3rd line treatment for metastatic NSCLC. Nail disorders, including ingrown nails, nailbed infections, onychoclasis, onycholysis, and paronychia were also reported in 5% (grade 3 or 4, 0.1%) of gefitinib-treated patients compared with 0.7% (grade 3 or 4, 0%) of those treated with placebo; cutaneous vasculitis was also reported in postmarketing experience with gefitinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vesicular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      folliculitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      onycholysis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vasculitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, cheilitis, dehydration, diarrhea, GI perforation, nausea, oral ulceration, stomatitis, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Diarrhea occurred in 29% (grade 3 or 4, 3%) of patients receiving first-line treatment for metastatic NSCLC with gefitinib (n = 1,126) compared with 10% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients who received placebo (n = 562) in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind clinical trial. Monitor patients for diarrhea, as an interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary. Additional gastrointestinal adverse reactions in this trial included anorexia (all grade, 17% vs. 14%; grade 3 or 4, 2.3% vs. 2%), vomiting (all grade, 14% vs. 10%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2% vs. 0.4%), and stomatitis (including cheilitis, glossodynia, oral ulceration, oral inflammation, oral blistering, tongue disorder, and tongue ulceration) (all grade, 7% vs. 4%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3% vs. 0.2%). Nausea (18%), xerostomia (2%), and dehydration (1.8%) were additionally reported across non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) clinical trials (n = 2,462); gastrointestinal perforation occurred in 0.1% of patients in these trials. Permanently discontinue gefitinib in patients who develop GI perforation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cheilitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI perforation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia
    General Information
    Asthenia was reported in 17% of patients treated with gefitinib across non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) clinical trials (n = 2,462).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bleeding, epistaxis, hematuria, hemorrhagic cystitis
    General Information
    Bleeding, including epistaxis and hematuria, was reported in 4.3% of patients treated with gefitinib across non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) clinical trials (n = 2,462); hemorrhagic cystitis has been reported during postmarketing experience with gefitinib. Elevations in international normalized ratio (INR) have also been noted in patients concomitantly taking warfarin; monitor INR and watch for bleeding in patients taking both gefitinib and warfarin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hemorrhagic cystitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    pancreatitis
    General Information
    Pancreatitis has been reported in 0.1% of patients treated with gefitinib across non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) clinical trials (n = 2,462).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angioedema, urticaria
    General Information
    Allergic reactions, including angioedema and urticaria, occurred in 1.1% of patients treated with gefitinib across non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) clinical trials (n = 2,462).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia
    General Information
    Alopecia was reported in 4.7% of patients treated with gefitinib across non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) clinical trials (n = 2,462).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cystitis, proteinuria
    General Information
    In a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of patients receiving 2nd or 3rd line therapy for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), proteinuria occurred in 35% of patients treated with gefitinib (grade 3 or 4, 4.7%) (n = 1,126) compared with 31% of those who received placebo (grade 3 or 4, 3.3%) (n = 562). Elevated serum creatinine also occurred in 1.5% of gefitinib-treated patients across NSCLC clinical trials (n = 2,462), while cystitis was reported in postmarketing experience with gefitinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pulmonary embolism
    General Information
    In a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of patients receiving 2nd or 3rd line therapy for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), fatal pulmonary embolism was reported in 0.5% of gefitinib-treated patients (n = 1,126).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal data, gefitinib may cause female infertility.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Gefitinib is an oral, selective epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI). EGRF is expressed, overexpressed, or dysregulated in many cancers including breast, ovarian, non-small cell (NSCLC), mesothelioma, colorectal, and head and neck cancers. Clinically, EGFR expression has been associated with poor prognosis, development of metastasis, and resistance to chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, and radiation therapy. Gefitinib was originally approved by the FDA in 2002 for the third-line treatment of advanced NSCLC. However, in 2005 the indication was modified to only include patients who benefited from either current or past gefitinib treatment, due to a large clinical trial in patients with refractory NSCLC showing no survival benefit, as well as the early termination of another clinical trial after an interim analysis due to a lack of survival at in advanced NSCLC following chemotherapy and radiation. Of note, the impact of EGFR status on efficacy was unknown at that time. In 2015, the FDA approved gefitinib for the first-line treatment of metastatic NSCLC in patients with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 (L858R) substitution mutations based on a small, single-arm, open-label study. Serious adverse reactions include interstitial lung disease, liver damage, gastrointestinal perforation, severe diarrhea, bullous and exfoliative skin disorders, and ocular disorders; the most common side effects are diarrhea and skin reactions. Periodically monitor liver function tests during therapy.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Gefitinib is a synthetic anilinoquinazoline that is a selective inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase (EGFR-TK). The activity of protein tyrosine kinases is tightly regulated since they function as mediators of cell growth, differentiation, and death. Exon 19 deletion and exon 21 (L858R) substitution mutation are activating mutations within NSCLC cells, and have been identified as contributing to the promotion of tumor cell growth, blocking of apoptosis, increasing the production of angiogenic factors, and facilitating the process of metastasis. The binding affinity of gefitinib for EGFR exon 19 deletion or exon 21 (L858R) substitution mutations is higher than its affinity for wild-type EGFR. Gefitinib also inhibits IGF and PDGF-mediated signaling at clinically relevant concentrations. The effect of gefitinib on other tyrosine kinase receptors has not been fully characterized.
Gefitinib reversibly binds to the ATP-binding site and completely inhibits autophosphorylation by EGFR-TK. This results in blockage of downstream EGFR signal transduction pathways, cell cycle arrest, and inhibition of angiogenesis. The skin rash adverse reaction commonly seen with gefitinib is thought to be a result of inhibition of EGRF-positive epidermal keratinocytes and other skin cells that are dependent upon EGFR for normal cellular growth and activity; the appearance of skin rash appears to correlate with clinical activity of the drug.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Gefitinib is slowly absorbed with peak plasma levels occurring 3 to 7 hours after dosing with a mean bioavailability of 60%; bioavailability is not meaningfully altered by food. However, the mean AUC of gefitinib was decreased by 47% in healthy subjects when coadministered with high doses of ranitidine and sodium bicarbonate to maintain the gastric pH above 5. Administration of gefitinib with proton pump inhibitors, H2-blockers, and antacids should be avoided if possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administration should be separated by 6 hours for antacids and H2-blockers and by 12 hours for proton pump inhibitors. Inter-subject variability (coefficient of variation) for AUC in healthy subjects was 67%. Daily oral administration of gefitinib to cancer patients resulted in a 2-fold accumulation compared to single dose administration.
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    Gefitinib is extensively distributed throughout the body, with a mean steady state volume of distribution of 1,400 liters after intravenous administration.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The mean systemic exposure of gefitinib was increased by 40% in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child Pugh A; n = 10), 263% in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh B; n = 10), and 166% in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh C, n = 10) compared to patients with normal hepatic function (n = 10). In a separate study, the pharmacokinetics of gefitinib were similar in patients with liver metastases and normal liver function (n = 14) compared to patients with liver metastases and moderate hepatic impairment (n = 13).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Less than 4% of gefitinib and its metabolites are excreted via the kidney. Creatinine clearance (CrCL) greater than 20 mL/min does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of gefitinib, based on a population analysis. No clinical studies have been conducted with gefitinib in patients with severely compromised renal function.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    No clinical studies have been conducted with gefitinib in pediatric patients.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Based on population pharmacokinetic analyses, age does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the predicted steady state trough concentration of gefitinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Based on a population pharmacokinetics analysis of one clinical study, gefitinib exposure was 27% higher in women compared to men; this difference was not identified in the analyses of other gefitinib studies. A does adjustment based on gender is not recommended.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Based on population pharmacokinetic analyses, ethnicity does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the predicted steady state trough concentration of gefitinib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Based on population pharmacokinetic analyses, body weight does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the predicted steady state trough concentration of gefitinib.
  Text
  Gefitinib is administered orally. In vitro binding to plasma proteins, primarily albumin and alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, is 90% and independent of drug concentrations. Gefitinib is cleared primarily by the liver, with total plasma clearance and elimination half-life of 48 hours after intravenous administration. Steady-state plasma concentrations are achieved within 10 days after daily dosing. Excretion is predominantly via the feces (86%), with renal elimination of the drug and metabolites accounting for less than 4% of the administered dose.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2D6
Gefitinib undergoes significant hepatic metabolism, predominantly via the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 3A4 (CYP3A4). Three sites of biotransformation have been identified: metabolism of the N-propoxymorpholino group, demethylation of the methoxy-substituent on the quinazoline, and oxidative defluorination of the halogenated phenyl group. A dose adjustment is necessary in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 inducers, with extra monitoring in place for patients receiving strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Additionally, in vitro CYP2D6 metabolizes gefitinib to its major (14%) active metabolite, O-desmethyl gefitinib, which has similar EGFR-tyrosine kinase activity to gefitinib, but only 1/14 of the potency in a cell-based assay. Eight metabolites have been identified in human plasma, with only O-desmethyl gefitinib having exposure comparable to gefitinib; five metabolites have been fully identified in fecal extracts. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and the mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers; this may be relevant as some adverse drug reactions are related to higher exposure of gefitinib. Monitor known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers for an increased incidence of adverse effects; however, a dose adjustment is not recommended by the manufacturer. The impact of drugs that inhibit CYP2D6 has not been studied, but similar precautions should be in place.
In human liver microsome studies, gefitinib inhibited CYP2C19 by 24% and CYP2D6 by 43% at the highest concentration studied (5,000 ng/mL). In another pharmacokinetic study, gefitinib administration at twice the recommended dose increased the AUC of metoprolol, a CYP2D6 substrate, by 35% which was not statistically significant. The investigators concluded that gefitinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 that is unlikely to exert a clinically relevant effect on CYP2D6 substrates; however, the potential should be considered in CYP2D6 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic index or are individually dose titrated. The manufacturer of gefitinib does not recommend precautions in patients receiving CYP2D6 substrates. No inhibitory effects were seen on CYP1A2, CYP2C9, or CYP3A4 at concentrations ranging from 2,000 to 5,000 ng/mL. Gefitinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, but it is unlikely to influence gefitinib absorption as P-gp is saturated at higher concentrations.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Pediatrics:
Doses 150 to 500 mg/m2/day: Low
Adults:
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Gefitinib is given orally with or without food.
For patients who have difficulty swallowing, drop a gefitinib tablet into 4 to 8 ounces of water. Do not crush the tablet. Stir until it is dispersed (approximately 15 minutes) and drink the liquid immediately. Rinse the glass with 4 to 8 ounces of water and immediately drink. The liquid can also be administered through a naso-gastric (NG) tube.
Do not take a missed dose within 12 hours of the next dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    250 mg per day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    250 mg per day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment:
No dosage adjustment is necessary.
 
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity:
Grade 2 or higher increases in ALT or AST: Hold gefitinib treatment for up to 14 days. When symptoms resolve to grade 1 or less, resume therapy with gefitinib.
Severe hepatic impairment: Permanently discontinue gefitinib.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
