=== Amivantamab — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5332)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Amivantamab is a bispecific epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and MET receptor-directed antibody.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: Weight of 80 kg or more

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis, blepharitis, blurred vision, keratitis, ocular pruritus, ocular toxicity, uveitis, visual impairment, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, weakness, oral ulceration, bleeding, epistaxis, hematuria, hemoptysis, hemorrhoids, conjunctivitis, fever, infection, sepsis, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pulmonary disease Use amivantamab with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe and fatal pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease (ILD) has been... Emetic risk: Low

AMIVANTAMAB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Rybrevant

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)

For the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations with progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy, as monotherapy
Intravenous dosage
Adults weighing 80 kg or more


350 mg IV on day 1 of week 1; 1,050 mg IV on day 2 of week 1. On day 1 of weeks 2 through 5, administer amivantamab 1,400 mg IV once weekly; do not administer amivantamab during week 6. Beginning on day 1 of week 7, give amivantamab 1,400 mg IV every 2 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Premedicate with diphenhydramine and acetaminophen prior to each dose of amivantamab; premedication with a glucocorticoid is only required on week 1 day 1 and 2 and after prolonged dose interruptions. In a multicenter, open-label, multicohort clinical trial (CHRYSALIS), treatment with amivantamab resulted in an overall response rate of 40% (complete response, 3.7%) for a median duration of 11.1 months in 81 patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy; the duration of response was at least 6 months in 63% of patients. At a median follow-up time of 9.7 months, the median progression-free survival and overall survival times were 8.3 months and 22.8 months, respectively. In this trial, patients had received a median of 2 prior therapies.


Adults weighing less than 80 kg


350 mg IV on day 1 of week 1; 700 mg IV on day 2 of week 1. On day 1 of weeks 2 through 5, administer 1,050 mg IV once weekly; do not administer amivantamab during week 6. Beginning on day 1 of week 7, give 1,050 mg IV every 2 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Premedicate with diphenhydramine (25 mg to 50 mg) and acetaminophen (650 mg to 1,000 mg) prior to each dose of amivantamab. Additionally, administer either dexamethasone (10 mg IV) or methylprednisolone (40 mg IV) or equivalent prior to the initial 2 infusions of amivantamab (week 1, days 1 and 2); glucocorticoid premedication is optional for subsequent doses. In a multicenter, open-label, multicohort clinical trial (CHRYSALIS trial), treatment with amivantamab resulted in an overall response rate of 40% (complete response, 3.7%) for a median duration of 11.1 months in 81 patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy; the duration of response was at least 6 months in 63% of patients. At a median follow-up time of 9.7 months (range, 1.1 to 29.3 months), the median progression-free survival and overall survival times were 8.3 months and 22.8 months, respectively. In this trial, patients (median age, 62 years; range, 42 to 84 years) had received a median of 2 (range, 1 to 7) prior therapies.


For the first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations, in combination with carboplatin and pemetrexed
Intravenous dosage
Adults weighing 80 kg or more


350 mg IV on day 1 of week 1; 1,400 mg IV on day 2 of week 1. On day 1 of weeks 2 through 4, administer amivantamab 1,750 mg IV once weekly; do not administer amivantamab during weeks 5 and 6. Beginning on day 1 of week 7, give amivantamab 2,100 mg IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Premedicate with diphenhydramine and acetaminophen prior to each dose of amivantamab; premedication with a glucocorticoid is only required on week 1 day 1 and 2 and after prolonged dose interruptions. Administer in combination with carboplatin (AUC 5 IV every 3 weeks for up to 12 weeks [4 cycles]) and pemetrexed (500 mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity). Infuse pemetrexed first, followed by carboplatin, and then amivantamab. Treatment with IV amivantamab, pemetrexed, and carboplatin significantly improved median progression-free survival (11.4 months vs. 6.7 months) compared with pemetrexed and carboplatin alone in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations in a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (PAPILLON). The objective response rate was 67% in the amivantamab arm (complete response [CR], 4%) for a median duration of 10.1 months compared with 36% in the chemotherapy-alone arm (CR, 1%) for a median duration of 5.6 months.


Adults weighing less than 80 kg


350 mg IV on day 1 of week 1; 1,050 mg IV on day 2 of week 1. On day 1 of weeks 2 through 4, administer amivantamab 1,400 mg IV once weekly; do not administer amivantamab during weeks 5 and 6. Beginning on day 1 of week 7, give amivantamab 1,750 mg IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Premedicate with diphenhydramine and acetaminophen prior to each dose of amivantamab; premedication with a glucocorticoid is only required on week 1 day 1 and 2 and after prolonged dose interruptions. Administer in combination with carboplatin (AUC 5 IV every 3 weeks for up to 12 weeks [4 cycles]) and pemetrexed (500 mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity). Infuse pemetrexed first, followed by carboplatin, and then amivantamab. Treatment with IV amivantamab, pemetrexed, and carboplatin significantly improved median progression-free survival (11.4 months vs. 6.7 months) compared with pemetrexed and carboplatin alone in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations in a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (PAPILLON). The objective response rate was 67% in the amivantamab arm (complete response [CR], 4%) for a median duration of 10.1 months compared with 36% in the chemotherapy-alone arm (CR, 1%) for a median duration of 5.6 months.


For the first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations, in combination with lazertinib
Intravenous dosage
Adults weighing 80 kg or more


350 mg IV on day 1 of week 1; 1,050 mg IV on day 2 of week 1. On day 1 of weeks 2 through 5, administer amivantamab 1,400 mg IV once weekly; do not administer amivantamab during week 6. Beginning on day 1 of week 7, give amivantamab 1,400 mg IV every 2 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Premedicate with diphenhydramine and acetaminophen prior to each dose of amivantamab; premedication with a glucocorticoid is only required on week 1 day 1 and 2 and after prolonged dose interruptions. Administer in combination with lazertinib 240 mg PO once daily; give lazertinib at any time prior to amivantamab when given on the same day. Administer prophylaxis for venous thromboembolic events (VTE) for the first 4 months of treatment. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with lazertinib and amivantamab significantly improved median overall survival (not reached vs. 36.7 months) and median progression-free survival compared with osimertinib (23.7 months vs. 16.6 months) in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with either exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations in a multicenter, randomized, phase 3 clinical trial (MARIPOSA); the overall response rate was 78% versus 73% (complete response [CR], 5.4% vs. 3.5%) for a median response of 25.8 months versus 16.7 months, respectively. A similar percentage of patients had a duration of response of at least 6 months after treatment with lazertinib/amivantamab and osimertinib (86% vs. 85%); the duration of response was at least 12 months in 68% of patients in the lazertinib arm compared with 57% of those in the osimertinib arm.


Adults weighing less than 80 kg


350 mg IV on day 1 of week 1; 700 mg IV on day 2 of week 1. On day 1 of weeks 2 through 5, administer amivantamab 1,050 mg IV once weekly; do not administer amivantamab during week 6. Beginning on day 1 of week 7, give amivantamab 1,050 mg IV every 2 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Premedicate with diphenhydramine and acetaminophen prior to each dose of amivantamab; premedication with a glucocorticoid is only required on week 1 day 1 and 2 and after prolonged dose interruptions. Administer in combination with lazertinib 240 mg PO once daily; give lazertinib at any time prior to amivantamab when given on the same day. Administer prophylaxis for venous thromboembolic events (VTE) for the first 4 months of treatment. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with lazertinib and amivantamab significantly improved median progression-free survival compared with osimertinib (23.7 months vs. 16.6 months) in patients with previously untreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with either exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations in a multicenter, randomized, phase 3 clinical trial (MARIPOSA); the overall response rate was 78% versus 73% (complete response [CR], 5.4% vs. 3.5%) for a median response of 25.8 months versus 16.7 months, respectively. A similar percentage of patients had a duration of response of at least 6 months after treatment with lazertinib/amivantamab and osimertinib (86% vs. 85%); the duration of response was at least 12 months in 68% of patients in the lazertinib arm compared with 57% of those in the osimertinib arm. Overall survival results were immature.


For the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations in patients with disease progression on or after treatment with an EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, in combination with carboplatin and pemetrexed
Intravenous dosage
Adults weighing 80 kg or more


350 mg IV on day 1 of week 1; 1,400 mg IV on day 2 of week 1. On day 1 of weeks 2 through 4, administer amivantamab 1,750 mg IV once weekly; do not administer amivantamab during weeks 5 and 6. Beginning on day 1 of week 7, give amivantamab 2,100 mg IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Premedicate with diphenhydramine and acetaminophen prior to each dose of amivantamab; premedication with a glucocorticoid is only required on week 1, days 1 and 2, and after prolonged dose interruptions. Administer in combination with carboplatin (AUC 5 IV every 3 weeks for up to 12 weeks [4 cycles]) and pemetrexed (500 mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity). Infuse pemetrexed first, followed by carboplatin, and then amivantamab. In a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (MARIPOSA-2), treatment with amivantamab in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin significantly improved median progression-free survival (PFS) compared with pemetrexed and carboplatin alone (6.3 months vs. 4.2 months) and objective response rate (ORR) (53% vs. 29%; complete response, 0.8% vs. 0%) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations and progressive disease on or after receiving osimertinib. The median duration of response was 6.9 months versus 5.6 months, respectively. At a prespecified interim analysis, median overall survival was not significantly different between treatment arms (17.7 months vs. 15.3 months). In a prespecified secondary analysis of the 23% of patients with baseline intracranial disease, the rate of intracranial complete response by a blinded independent central review (BICR) was 20% in the amivantamab arm compared with 7% in patients who received chemotherapy alone; data are not available for intracranial partial responses. 


Adults weighing less than 80 kg


350 mg IV on day 1 of week 1; 1,050 mg IV on day 2 of week 1. On day 1 of weeks 2 through 4, administer amivantamab 1,400 mg IV once weekly; do not administer amivantamab during weeks 5 and 6. Beginning on day 1 of week 7, give amivantamab 1,750 mg IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes. Premedicate with diphenhydramine and acetaminophen prior to each dose of amivantamab; premedication with a glucocorticoid is only required on week 1, days 1 and 2, and after prolonged dose interruptions. Administer in combination with carboplatin (AUC 5 IV every 3 weeks for up to 12 weeks [4 cycles]) and pemetrexed (500 mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity). Infuse pemetrexed first, followed by carboplatin, and then amivantamab. In a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (MARIPOSA-2), treatment with amivantamab in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin significantly improved median progression-free survival (PFS) compared with pemetrexed and carboplatin alone (6.3 months vs. 4.2 months) and objective response rate (ORR) (53% vs. 29%; complete response, 0.8% vs. 0%) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations and progressive disease on or after receiving osimertinib. The median duration of response was 6.9 months versus 5.6 months, respectively. At a prespecified interim analysis, median overall survival was not significantly different between treatment arms (17.7 months vs. 15.3 months). In a prespecified secondary analysis of the 23% of patients with baseline intracranial disease, the rate of intracranial complete response by a blinded independent central review (BICR) was 20% in the amivantamab arm compared with 7% in patients who received chemotherapy alone; data are not available for intracranial partial responses. 


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pulmonary disease


Use amivantamab with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe and fatal pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease (ILD) has been reported in patients treated with amivantamab. Advise patients to immediately report any new or worsening respiratory symptoms including cough, dyspnea, or fever. Monitor patients for pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis and immediately interrupt therapy if ILD/pneumonitis is suspected; permanently discontinue amivantamab if ILD/pneumonitis is confirmed.


ocular disease


Use amivantamab with caution in patients with a history of ocular disease. Amivantamab can cause ocular toxicity, including keratitis, blepharitis, dry eye symptoms, conjunctival redness, blurred vision, visual impairment, ocular itching, eye pruritus, and uveitis. Promptly refer patients with new or worsening ocular symptoms to an ophthalmologist. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for ocular adverse reactions.


pregnancy


Amivantamab may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. There are no available human or animal data to assess the risk of using amivantamab during pregnancy. In animal models, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is critically important in reproductive and developmental processes including blastocyst implantation, placental development, and embryo-fetal/postnatal survival and development. Reduction or elimination of embryo-fetal or maternal EGFR signaling can prevent implantation, can cause embryo-fetal loss during various stages of gestation, and can cause developmental anomalies and early death in surviving fetuses. Similarly, knock out of MET or its ligand HGF caused embryonic death due to severe defects in placental development and fetuses displayed defects in muscle development in multiple organs. Human IgG1 is known to cross the placenta; therefore, amivantamab has the potential to be transmitted to the developing fetus.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with amivantamab. Amivantamab may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking amivantamab and for 3 months after the last dose.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking amivantamab and for 3 months after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of amivantamab in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. However, amivantamab has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breast-fed child.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Amivantamab may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. There are no available human or animal data to assess the risk of using amivantamab during pregnancy. In animal models, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is critically important in reproductive and developmental processes including blastocyst implantation, placental development, and embryo-fetal/postnatal survival and development. Reduction or elimination of embryo-fetal or maternal EGFR signaling can prevent implantation, can cause embryo-fetal loss during various stages of gestation, and can cause developmental anomalies and early death in surviving fetuses. Similarly, knock out of MET or its ligand HGF caused embryonic death due to severe defects in placental development and fetuses displayed defects in muscle development in multiple organs. Human IgG1 is known to cross the placenta; therefore, amivantamab has the potential to be transmitted to the developing fetus.


Interactions

Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.


Adverse Reaction
cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis


Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis occurred in 2.1% to 3.3% (grade 3, 0.7% to 1.8%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC treated with amivantamab as monotherapy or in combination with lazertinib, pemetrexed, or platinum chemotherapy in multicenter clinical trials, including fatalities. Monitor patients for pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis and immediately interrupt therapy if ILD/pneumonitis is suspected; permanently discontinue amivantamab if ILD/pneumonitis is confirmed. Dyspnea was reported in 11% to 37% (grade 3 or 4, 1.3% to 2.3%) and cough in 14% to 25% of NSCLC patients who received amivantamab in clinical trials.


acneiform rash, maculopapular rash, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), pruritus, rash, skin ulcer, toxic epidermal necrolysis, vesicular rash, xerosis


Rash commonly occurs in patients treated with amivantamab (72% to 90%; grade 3, 3.3% to 26%), with a median time to onset of 14 days after administration; the term rash included acneiform rash, eczema, asteatotic eczema, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), perineal rash, maculopapular rash, vesicular rash, skin exfoliation, and toxic epidermal necrolysis. Toxic epidermal necrolysis occurred in 1 patient (0.3%) treated with amivantamab monotherapy. Starting on Day 1 and for the first 12 weeks of treatment, give an oral antibiotic (doxycycline or minocycline, 100 mg PO twice daily); after completion, give antibiotic scalp lotion (clindamycin 1% topical once daily) for the next 9 months of treatment. Instruct patients to wash hands and feet with 4% chlorhexidine solution once daily and administer a non-comedogenic skin moisturizer (ceramide-based or other formulations that provide long-lasting skin hydration and exclude drying agents) on the face and whole body, except scalp. Instruct patients to limit sunlight (UV) exposure, use broad-spectrum UVA/UVB sunscreen, and wear protective clothing during and for 2 months after treatment with amivantamab. Administer supportive care including topical corticosteroids and topical and/or oral antibiotics if skin reactions develop; add oral steroids and consider a dermatologic consultation for grade 3 reactions. Promptly refer patients presenting with severe rash, atypical appearance or distribution, or lack of improvement within 2 weeks to a dermatologist. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity of the reaction. Paronychia occurred in 50% (grade 3 or 4, 3.1%) of patients treated with amivantamab monotherapy. Additional dermatologic reactions reported across clinical trials include xerosis (14% to 25%), unspecified nail toxicity (45% to 71%; grade 3 or 4, 2.3% to 11%), and pruritus (15% to 24%); fewer than 10% of patients in 3 trials reported a skin ulcer.


blepharitis, blurred vision, keratitis, ocular pruritus, ocular toxicity, uveitis, visual impairment


Ocular toxicity has been reported in 16% to 17% of patients treated with amivantamab (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less) including keratitis (0.7% or less), blepharitis, dry eye symptoms, conjunctival redness, blurred vision, visual impairment, ocular pruritus, and uveitis (0.3% or less). Promptly refer patients with new or worsening ocular symptoms to an ophthalmologist. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for ocular adverse reactions.


arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, weakness


Musculoskeletal pain was reported in 30% to 47% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC treated with amivantamab in clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 3.1% or less), including arthralgia, arthritis, back pain, bone pain, non-cardiac chest pain, myalgia, neck pain, extremity pain, and spinal pain. Serious cases of muscle weakness occurred in 2% of patients or more in 1 clinical trial.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, glossitis, nausea, oral ulceration, stomatitis, vomiting


Nausea (21% to 45%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2% or less), vomiting (12% to 25%; grade 3 or 4, 3.3% or less), diarrhea (15% to 31%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5% to 3.1%), and abdominal pain (11% or less; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less) were reported in patients treated with amivantamab either as monotherapy or in combination with other agents (e.g., pemetrexed, carboplatin, lazertinib) in clinical trials. Stomatitis occurred in 26% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8%) and constipation in 23% of patients who received amivantamab monotherapy. The incidence of stomatitis (35% to 43%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% to 4%) and constipation (29% to 40%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less) were higher in patients treated with amivantamab plus lazertinib or pemetrexed and carboplatin. The term stomatitis included aphthous ulcer, cheilitis, glossitis, oral ulceration, oral inflammation, and pharyngeal inflammation.


asthenia, fatigue


Fatigue (including asthenia) occurred in 32% to 51% (grade 3 or 4, 2.3% to 6%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC treated with amivantamab in clinical trials.


edema, peripheral edema


Edema occurred in 27% to 43% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% to 2.6%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC treated with amivantamab in clinical trials. The term edema included eyelid edema, facial edema, lip edema, peripheral edema, and periorbital edema.


bleeding, epistaxis, hematuria, hemoptysis, hemorrhoids


Bleeding occurred in 14% to 25% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC treated with amivantamab in clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 1% or less). Hemorrhoids were also reported in 12% or fewer amivantamab-treated patients (grade 3 or 4, 1% or less). The term bleeding included epistaxis, gingival bleeding, hematuria, hemoptysis, hemorrhage, mouth hemorrhage, and mucosal hemorrhage.


conjunctivitis, fever, infection, sepsis


Infection has been reported in patients treated with amivantamab including pneumonia which occurred in 10% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8%) of patients who received amivantamab monotherapy in a single arm trial. In 2 clinical trials, the incidence of COVID-19 (21% to 24% vs. 10% to 14%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5% to 2% vs. 0.6% or less) was higher in patients treated with amivantamab plus chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone; pneumonia was also more common in the amivantamab arm of one of these trials (13% vs. 6%; grade 3 or 4, 5% vs. 1.9%). Additional infections that occurred with amivantamab treatment included conjunctivitis (11% or less; grade 3 or 4, 0.2% or less) and sepsis (2.3% or less). Fever has been reported in 12% to 17% of patients who received amivantamab.


anorexia, weight loss


Decreased appetite or anorexia (15% to 36%; grade 3 or 4, 2.6% or less) was reported in patients treated with amivantamab as monotherapy or in combination with chemotherapy across clinical trials. Additionally, weight loss occurred in 14% of patients treated with amivantamab in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin in one randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%).


hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy


Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 13% of patients with previously treated, locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC who received amivantamab monotherapy in a multicenter, multicohort clinical trial (CHRYSALIS), including hypoesthesia, neuralgia, and paresthesias. Paresthesias were also reported in 35% (grade 3 or 4, 1.7%) of patients treated with amivantamab in combination with lazertinib in a randomized clinical trial (MARIPOSA).


dizziness, headache, migraine


Dizziness occurred in 14% or fewer patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC who received amivantamab in clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less). Headache (including migraine) was also reported in 13% or fewer amivantamab-treated patients (grade 3 or 4, 0.2% to 0.8%).


pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism, thrombosis


Venous thromboembolism (VTE) occurred in 36% (grade 3 or 4, 10.5%) of patients treated with amivantamab in combination with lazertinib in a randomized clinical trial; serious and fatal cases of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) occurred. The majority of thromboembolic events occurred during the first 4 months of therapy with a median time to onset of 84 days; prophylactic anticoagulation is required during this time when amivantamab is given in combination with lazertinib. Despite this, VTEs occurred in 1.2% of patients on-study while receiving anticoagulation therapy. Monitor for signs and symptoms of VTE and treat as medically appropriate; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity. Deep vein thrombosis occurred in 10% or fewer patients treated with amivantamab plus pemetrexed/carboplatin in 2 clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 2.3% or less). Pulmonary embolism occurred in 2.3% to up to 10% of patients who received amivantamab in these trials and in at least 2% of patients who received amivantamab monotherapy in a single-arm trial.


elevated hepatic enzymes


Elevated hepatic enzymes occurred in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC who received amivantamab in clinical trials including increased alkaline phosphatase (42% to 53%; grade 3 or 4, 4.8% or less), increased ALT (38% to 65%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6% to 7%), increased AST (33% to 60%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% 3.8%), and increased GGT (27% to 39%; grade 3 or 4, 2.6% to 4%).


hyperglycemia, hypermagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia


Electrolyte abnormalities including hyperglycemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypermagnesemia, hyponatremia, and hypophosphatemia occurred in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC s who received amivantamab in clinical trials including decreases from baseline in corrected calcium (25% to 41%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4% or less), sodium (27% to 55%; grade 3 or 4, 4% to 11%), potassium (26% to 44%; grade 3 or 4, 5% to 11%), and magnesium (25% to 39%; grade 3 or 4, 2% or less) as well as increases from baseline in magnesium (12%; grade 3 or 4, 2.6%). Increased creatinine (26% to 46%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%), increased blood glucose (56%; grade 3 or 4, 4%), and decreased phosphate (33%; grade 3 or 4, 8%) were also reported in amivantamab-treated patients.


hypoalbuminemia


Hypoalbuminemia has been reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC who received amivantamab in clinical trials, with 73% to 89% reporting decreased albumin concentrations from baseline (grade 3 or 4, 3.8% to 8%).


anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Hematologic abnormalities including anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia occurred in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who received amivantamab in clinical trials. Decreased lymphocyte counts were reported in 36% (grade 3 or 4, 8%) of patients with previously treated, locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC who received amivantamab monotherapy in a single-arm trial. Decreases from baseline in white blood cells (89% to 91% vs. 76% to 85%; grade 3 or 4, 17% to 42% vs. 10% to 19%), neutrophils (74% to 76% vs. 61% to 64%; grade 3 or 4, 36% to 49% vs. 23% to 25%), platelets (70% to 74% vs. 54% to 58%; grade 3 or 4, 10% to 17% vs. 9% to 12%), and lymphocytes (61% to 69% vs. 49% to 58% (grade 3 or 4, 11% to 28% vs. 13% to 18%) were more common in patients with advanced NSCLC treated with amivantamab plus pemetrexed and carboplatin compared with those who received pemetrexed and carboplatin alone in 2 randomized clinical trials. Decreases from baseline occurred in platelets (52%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%), hemoglobin (47%; grade 3 or 4, 3.8%), leukocytes (38%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), and neutrophils (15%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4%) in patients treated with amivantamb in combination with lazertinib in a randomized clinical trial.


anaphylactoid reactions, chills, flushing, hypotension, infusion-related reactions


Infusion-related reactions including anaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions occurred in 50% to 66% (grade 3 or 4, 2.6% to 6%) of patients treated with amivantamab in clinical trials; symptoms include dyspnea, flushing, fever, chills, nausea, chest discomfort, hypotension, and vomiting. The incidence was higher on week 1, day 1 of therapy (65%), decreasing to 3.4% on week 1, day 2, 0.4% in week 2, and cumulatively 1.1% with subsequent infusions. The median time to onset was approximately 1 hour after the start of the infusion. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infusion reactions during amivantamab administration in a setting where cardiopulmonary resuscitation medication and equipment are available. Interrupt the infusion if an infusion-related reaction is suspected; a rate reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary. Permanently discontinue therapy if an anaphylactic reaction occurs.


antibody formation


Treatment-emergent anti-amivantamab antibody formation was reported in 0.2% of patients who received amivantamab as monotherapy or in combination with chemotherapy in clinical trials. The effect of anti-drug antibodies on the efficacy of amivantamab is unknown.


insomnia


Insomnia was reported in 10% of patients treated with amivantamab in combination with lazertinib in a randomized clinical trial (MARIPOSA).


pleural effusion


Pleural effusion occurred in 2.1% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with amivantamab in combination with lazertinib in a phase 3 clinical trial (MARIPOSA).


Description

Amivantamab is a bispecific epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and MET receptor-directed antibody. It is indicated in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations as first-line treatment or with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations after disease progression on an EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, in combination with lazertinib for locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations as first-line treatment, and as monotherapy for locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations in patients whose disease has progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy. Infusion-related reactions are common with the first dose. Because of this, the first dose should be divided and administered on 2 days. Premedication with an antihistamine and acetaminophen is required for all doses; the addition of a glucocorticoid is necessary for the first dose (days 1 and 2). Amivantamab was FDA-approved in 2021.

Mechanism Of Action

Amivantamab is a low-fucose human immunoglobulin G1-based bispecific antibody that binds to the extracellular domains of EGFR and MET. In vitro and in vivo, amivantamab was able to disrupt EGFR and MET signaling functions in mutation models of exon 19 deletions, exon 21 L858R substitutions, and exon 20 insertions through blocking ligand binding or degradation of EGFR and MET. The presence of EGFR and MET on the surface of tumor cells also allows for targeting of these cells for destruction by immune effector cells (e.g., natural killer cells and macrophages) through antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and trogocytosis mechanisms, respectively.

Pharmacokinetics

Amivantamab is administered intravenously. Exposure increases proportionally over a dose range of 350 mg to 1,750 mg. Steady-state was achieved by week 13 for both the 2-week and 3-week dosing regimens; the systemic accumulation was 1.9-fold. The mean volume of distribution of amivantamab is 5 liters (CV, 24%). The mean linear clearance of amivantamab is 0.26 liters/day (CV, 30%) and the terminal half-life is 14 days (CV, 33%).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters:
Formal drug interaction studies have not been conducted with amivantamab.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Hepatic Impairment

Mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin less than or equal to the upper limit of normal [ULN] and AST greater than ULN; or total bilirubin greater than ULN but less than or equal to 1.5 times ULN) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab. The pharmacokinetics of amivantamab have not been studied in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin more than 1.5 times ULN and any AST).

Renal Impairment

Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab. The pharmacokinetics of amivantamab have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease (eGFR less than 15 mL/min).

Geriatric

Age (21 to 88 years) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab.

Gender Differences

Sex did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab.

Ethnic Differences

Race did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of amivantamab.

Obesity

Increased body weight increases the volume of distribution and clearance of amivantamab. Amivantamab exposure was 30% to 40% lower in patients weighing 80 kg or more compared to patients weighing less than 80 kg at the same dose; exposure was comparable between patients weighing less than 80 kg who received 1,050 mg and patients weighing 80 kg or more who received 1,400 mg.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
Premedication
Dexamethasone 8 mg PO (or equivalent) twice daily for 48 hours prior to the first amivantamab dose (on Week 1, day -2 and day -1)
Week 1, day 1, additionally premedicate with dexamethasone 20 mg IV (or equivalent) 45 to 60 minutes before amivantamab administration.
Week 1, day 2, additionally premedicate with dexamethasone 10 mg IV (or equivalent) 45 to 60 minutes before amivantamab administration; glucocorticoid premedication may be administered as necessary for subsequent infusions.
Diphenhydramine 25 to 50 mg IV (or equivalent) and acetaminophen 650 to 1,000 mg IV 15 to 30 minutes prior to each dose of amivantamab; alternatively, oral diphenhydramine and acetaminophen may be given 30 to 60 minutes prior to administration.
Following prolonged dose interruptions, restart the following Week 1, day 1 premedications upon reinitiation: intravenous dexamethasone, diphenhydramine, and acetaminophen.
Prophylactic and Concomitant Medications
To reduce the risk of dermatologic adverse events:
Starting on Day 1 and for the first 12 weeks of treatment, administer an oral antibiotic (doxycycline or minocycline 100 mg PO twice daily).
After completion of oral antibiotic prophylaxis, administer antibiotic lotion to the scalp (clindamycin 1% topical once daily) for the next 9 months of treatment.
Wash hands and feet with 4% chlorhexidine solution once daily.
Administer non-comedogenic skin moisturizer (ceramide-based or other formulations that provide long-lasting skin hydration and exclude drying agents) on the face and whole body, except scalp.
Limit sun exposure during and for 2 months after treatment; wear protective clothing and use broad-spectrum UVA/UVB sunscreen.
To reduce the risk of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) when given in combination with lazertinib:
Administer prophylaxis for VTE for the first 4 months of treatment. If there are no signs or symptoms of VTE during the first 4 months of treatment, anticoagulation may be discontinued at the discretion of the healthcare provider.


Injectable Administration

Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Intravenous Administration


Amivantamab dosing should be based on the patient's baseline weight. Dose adjustments are not required for subsequent body weight changes.
Split administration of the Week 1 dose on days 1 and 2; thereafter, the total dose may be infused on day 1.
Do not infuse amivantamab concomitantly in the same IV line with other agents.
 
Dilution
For the initial infusion, prepare amivantamab as close as possible to administration time to allow for the possibility of an extended infusion due to an infusion-related reaction.
Withdraw and discard a volume of either 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection from a 250 mL infusion bag equal to the volume of amivantamab to be added (7 mL per vial). Only use polyvinylchloride (PVC), polypropylene (PP), polyethylene (PE), or polyolefin blend (PP+PE) infusion bags.
Withdraw 7 mL (350 mg) of amivantamab from each vial to reach the appropriate dose and add it to the infusion bag; the final volume should be 250 mL. Discard any unused portion or overfill left in the vial.
Gently invert the bag to mix; do not shake.
Storage following dilution: Diluted solutions should be administered within 10 hours (including infusion time) at room temperature (59 to 77 degrees F; 15 to 25 degrees C).
 
Intravenous Infusion
Infuse using an infusion set fitted with a flow regulator and with a 0.2 micrometer in-line, sterile, non-pyrogenic, low protein-binding polyethersulfone (PES) filter primed with diluent only.
Administration sets must be made of either polyurethane (PU), polybutadiene (PBD) PVC, PP, or PE.
Administer amivantamab via a peripheral line on weeks 1 and 2, given the high incidence of infusion-related reactions during initial treatment. Amivantamab may be administered via central line for subsequent weeks.
The total infusion time is 4 to 6 hours on week 1, day 1 and 6 to 8 hours on week 1, day 2. Subsequent infusion time is approximately 2 hours.
 
Monotherapy
Week 1, Day 1: Infuse 350 mg at an initial infusion rate of 50 mL/hour; the rate may be increased to 75 mL/hour after 2 hours in the absence of infusion-related reactions.
Week 1, Day 2: If the day 2 dose is 700 mg, infuse at an initial rate of 50 mL/hour; the rate may be increased to 75 mL/hour after 2 hours in the absence of infusion-related reactions. If the day 2 dose is 1,050 mg, infuse at an initial rate of 35 mL/hour; the rate may be increased to 50 mL/hour after 2 hours in the absence of infusion-related reactions.
Week 2: If the dose is 1,050 mg, infuse at a rate of 85 mL/hour. If the dose is 1,400 mg, infuse at a rate of 65 mL/hour.
Week 3: If the dose is 1,050 mg, infuse at a rate of 125 mL/hour. If the dose is 1,400 mg, infuse at a rate of 85 mL/hour.
Week 4 and subsequent doses: Infuse at a rate of 125 mL/hour.
 
Combination therapy with lazertinib
Sequence of administration: Administer amivantamab any time after lazertinib when given on the same day.
Week 1, Day 1: Infuse 350 mg at an initial infusion rate of 50 mL/hour; the rate may be increased to 75 mL/hour after 2 hours in the absence of infusion-related reactions.
Week 1, Day 2: If the day 2 dose is 700 mg, infuse at an initial rate of 50 mL/hour; the rate may be increased to 75 mL/hour after 2 hours in the absence of infusion-related reactions. If the day 2 dose is 1,050 mg, infuse at an initial rate of 35 mL/hour; the rate may be increased to 50 mL/hour after 2 hours in the absence of infusion-related reactions.
Week 2: If the dose is 1,050 mg, infuse at a rate of 85 mL/hour. If the dose is 1,400 mg, infuse at a rate of 65 mL/hour.
Week 3: If the dose is 1,050 mg, infuse at a rate of 125 mL/hour. If the dose is 1,400 mg, infuse at a rate of 85 mL/hour.
Week 4 and subsequent doses: Infuse at a rate of 125 mL/hour.
 
Combination therapy with pemetrexed and carboplatin
Sequence of administration: Administer pemetrexed first, carboplatin second, amivantamab last.
Week 1, Day 1: Infuse 350 mg at an initial infusion rate of 50 mL/hour; the rate may be increased to 75 mL/hour after 2 hours in the absence of infusion-related reactions.
Week 1, Day 2: If the day 2 dose is 1,050 mg, infuse at an initial rate of 35 mL/hour; the rate may be increased to 50 mL/hour after 2 hours in the absence of infusion-related reactions. If the day 2 dose is 1,400 mg, infuse at an initial rate of 25 mL/hour; the rate may be increased to 50 mL/hour after 2 hours in the absence of infusion-related reactions.
Week 2: Infuse at a rate of 65 mL/hour.
Week 3: Infuse at a rate of 85 mL/hour.
Week 4 and subsequent doses: Infuse at a rate of 125 mL/hour.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Weight of 80 kg or more
Every-2-week dosing: 1,400 mg IV.
Every-3-week dosing: 2,100 mg IV.
 
Weight of less than 80 kg
Every-2-week dosing: 1,050 mg IV.
Every-3-week dosing: 1,750 mg IV.

Geriatric

Weight of 80 kg or more
Every-2-week dosing: 1,400 mg IV.
Every-3-week dosing: 2,100 mg IV.
 
Weight of less than 80 kg
Every-2-week dosing: 1,050 mg IV.
Every-3-week dosing: 1,750 mg IV.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Rybrevant 350mg/7mL Solution for Injection

Rybrevant Faspro 1,600mg-20,000units/10mL Solution for Injection

Rybrevant Faspro 2,240mg-28,000units/14mL Solution for Injection

Rybrevant Faspro 2,400mg-30,000units/15mL Solution for Injection

Rybrevant Faspro 3,520mg-44,000units/22mL Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. The pharmacokinetics of amivantamab have not been studied in patients with moderate to severe (total bilirubin more than 1.5 times upper limit of normal [ULN] and any AST) hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. The pharmacokinetics of amivantamab have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease (eGFR less than 15 mL/min).

© 2026 Elsevier