=== Suzetrigine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5588)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Suzetrigine is an oral sodium channel blocker indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe acute pain.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 150 mg/day PO with initial dose, otherwise 100 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arrhythmia exacerbation, hypotension, syncope

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Avoid use of suzetrigine in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C); it has not been studied in individuals with hepatic failure. Dosage adjustment is necessary for suzetrigine in individuals with moderate hepatic...

Brand Names
  - JOURNAVX

Dosage Forms
  - JOURNAVX 50mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        100 mg PO once, then 50 mg PO every 12 hours. Limit use to the shortest duration consistent with individual treatment goals; use has not been studied beyond 14 days. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of acute moderate pain and severe pain, including postoperative pain

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Avoid use of suzetrigine in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C); it has not been studied in individuals with hepatic failure. Dosage adjustment is necessary for suzetrigine in individuals with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B). Individuals with moderate hepatic impairment have higher systemic exposures of suzetrigine and its active metabolite, M6-SUZ, than those with normal hepatic function, which may increase the risk of suzetrigine-related adverse reactions.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal failure
    General Information
    Avoid use of suzetrigine in individuals with renal failure (i.e., eGFR less than 15 mL/minute); it has not been studied in this population.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available data with suzetrigine during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, administration of suzetrigine to rats at exposures 2.2-times or more the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) during early embryonic development or throughout organogenesis resulted in adverse effects on implantation and maintenance of pregnancy. Additionally, in a pre- and postnatal development study, administration of suzetrigine to rats resulted in reduced mean gestation length and increased pup mortality at maternal exposures of 1.6-times the MRHD and decreased rat pup body weights during the period of birth to weaning at maternal exposures of 2.2-times the MRHD. The clinical relevance of these finding to humans is unclear.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Suzetrigine may be associated with reproductive risk. Based on animal studies, suzetrigine may reversibly impact the likelihood of people who may become pregnant to conceive while on treatment. Individuals using contraceptives should continue to use contraceptives. Administration of suzetrigine to rats at exposures 2.2-times or more the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) prior to mating and through gestation day 7 increased pre-implantation loss.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of suzetrigine or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Suzetrigine is present in animal milk. Because suzetrigine is present in animal milk, it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for suzetrigine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from suzetrigine or the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available data with suzetrigine during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, administration of suzetrigine to rats at exposures 2.2-times or more the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) during early embryonic development or throughout organogenesis resulted in adverse effects on implantation and maintenance of pregnancy. Additionally, in a pre- and postnatal development study, administration of suzetrigine to rats resulted in reduced mean gestation length and increased pup mortality at maternal exposures of 1.6-times the MRHD and decreased rat pup body weights during the period of birth to weaning at maternal exposures of 2.2-times the MRHD. The clinical relevance of these finding to humans is unclear.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There are no data on the presence of suzetrigine or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Suzetrigine is present in animal milk. Because suzetrigine is present in animal milk, it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for suzetrigine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from suzetrigine or the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with suzetrigine can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and adagrasib is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a weak CYP3A inducer like suzetrigine with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of aprepitant/fosaprepitant. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with suzetrigine can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and atazanavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and atazanavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with suzetrigine is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Avacopan: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of avacopan. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with suzetrigine is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Berotralstat: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of berotralstat. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of lenacapavir. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with suzetrigine can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with suzetrigine can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease the exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer; carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and suzetrigine. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and ceritinib is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and chloramphenicol is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with suzetrigine can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of ciprofloxacin. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clozapine effectiveness if coadministered with suzetrigine. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. When suzetrigine is discontinued, reduce the clozapine dose based on clinical response. Clozapine is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with suzetrigine can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with suzetrigine can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with suzetrigine can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with suzetrigine can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with suzetrigine can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with suzetrigine can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Conivaptan: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of conivaptan. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Crizotinib: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of crizotinib. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of cyclosporine. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also decrease cyclosporine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer; cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended suzetrigine dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and darunavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and darunavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and darunavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
dilTIAZem: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of diltiazem. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Doravirine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and suzetrigine may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and suzetrigine may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and suzetrigine may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Dronedarone: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of dronedarone. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Drospirenone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Duvelisib: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of duvelisib. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and cobicistat is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Erythromycin: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of erythromycin. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Fedratinib: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of fedratinib. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of suzetrigine is necessary. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like suzetrigine with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Fluconazole: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of fluconazole. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of fluvoxamine. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of fosamprenavir. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during suzetrigine treatment due to the risk of increased suzetrigine exposure and adverse reactions. Suzetrigine is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and idelalisib is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Imatinib: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of imatinib. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of isavuconazonium. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and itraconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Lefamulin: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of oral lefamulin. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Lenacapavir: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of lenacapavir. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Letermovir: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of letermovir; concomitant use is contraindicated if also receiving cyclosporine. In patients receiving letermovir alone, beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended suzetrigine dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and lonafarnib is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and ritonavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and suzetrigine as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary as concurrent use may decrease mefloquine exposure and efficacy. Mefloquine is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A; suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease methadone exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and mifepristone is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with suzetrigine. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and nefazodone is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and nelfinavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of netupitant. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Nilotinib: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of nilotinib. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and ritonavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of suzetrigine is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and suzetrigine may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer.
Nirogacestat: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of nirogacestat. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with suzetrigine as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and posaconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Progestins: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and relacorilant is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Ribociclib: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day; concomitant use of ribociclib at a dose of 600 mg/day is contraindicated. In patients receiving ribociclib 400 mg/day, beginning with dose 5 of suzetrigine and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates, ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and ribociclib at a dose of 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended suzetrigine dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day; concomitant use of ribociclib at a dose of 600 mg/day is contraindicated. In patients receiving ribociclib 400 mg/day, beginning with dose 5 of suzetrigine and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates, ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and ribociclib at a dose of 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended suzetrigine dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of rilzabrutinib. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of ritlecitinib. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and ritonavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and saquinavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of suzetrigine. A contraceptive regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel or norethindrone, an intrauterine system, or a higher-dose hormonal regimen may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on suzetrigine, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest suzetrigine has a minimal effect on combination ethinyl estradiol with levonorgestrel but may affect other combinations.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an approximately 3-fold increase in sildenafil clearance with concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of suzetrigine. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if suzetrigine must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; a tacrolimus dose adjustment may be needed. Concurrent administration may decrease tacrolimus concentrations. Tacrolimus is a CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and tipranavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If suzetrigine is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of verapamil. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and tucatinib is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with suzetrigine as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with suzetrigine. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer.
Verapamil: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of verapamil. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and voriconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Voxelotor: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of voxelotor. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with suzetrigine is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 25% to 49% was reported with suzetrigine in 2.5% of subjects during clinical trials. Follow-up eGFR data after treatment discontinuation was not available for controlled trials; however, decreases in eGFR appeared to resolve to baseline by the final safety follow-up visit in an open-label trial. There were no adverse reactions of eGFR decrease in suzetrigine-treated subjects.
    Headline
    drowsiness
    General Information
    Drowsiness leading to premature treatment discontinuation in 0.4% of subjects was reported with suzetrigine during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, hypotension, syncope
    General Information
    Arrhythmia exacerbation, hypotension, and syncope leading to premature treatment discontinuation in 0.4%, 0.2%, and 0.1% of subjects, respectively, were reported with suzetrigine during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea or vomiting was reported with suzetrigine in 9% to 20% of subjects during clinical trials; 0.4% of suzetrigine-treated subjects discontinued treatment prematurely due to nausea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pruritus, rash
    General Information
    Pruritus (2.1%) and rash (1.1%) were reported with suzetrigine during clinical trials; 0.4% of suzetrigine-treated subjects discontinued treatment prematurely due to rash.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated creatine kinase, muscle cramps
    General Information
    Muscle spasms or muscle cramps were reported with suzetrigine in 1.3% of subjects during clinical trials. Elevated creatine kinase was reported with suzetrigine in 1.1% to 2.9% of subjects during clinical trials. All reports of creatine kinase elevations occurred in the post-surgical setting. There were no associated signs or symptoms, no serious adverse reactions, and no subjects required treatment discontinuation or interruption.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hematoma
    General Information
    Postprocedural hematoma leading to premature treatment discontinuation in 0.2% of subjects was reported with suzetrigine during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Suzetrigine is an oral sodium channel blocker indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe acute pain. Suzetrigine is a first-in-class, non-opioid analgesic. Suzetrigine selectively inhibits Nav1.8 voltage-gated sodium channels expressed in peripheral sensory neurons responsible for transmitting pain signals. By blocking these channels, transmission of pain signals to the spinal cord and brain is reduced. In clinical trials of individuals with moderate to severe acute pain after full abdominoplasty or bunionectomy, treatment with suzetrigine resulted in a statistically significant superior reduction in pain compared to placebo. Use of suzetrigine beyond 14 days has not been studied. Suzetrigine dosage reduction or avoidance is necessary in individuals with moderate or severe hepatic impairment, respectively, due to risk for higher systemic exposures of suzetrigine and its active metabolite, which may increase the risk of suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine was FDA-approved in January 2025.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Suzetrigine is a selective blocker of the Nav1.8 voltage-gated sodium channel, compared to other known voltage-gated sodium channels (Nav1.1 through 1.9). Nav1.8 is expressed in peripheral sensory neurons, including dorsal root ganglion neurons, where its role is to transmit pain signals (action potentials). By selectively inhibiting Nav1.8 channels, suzetrigine inhibits transmission of pain signals to the spinal cord and brain. M6-SUZ, a major active metabolite, is a less potent inhibitor of Nav1.8 than suzetrigine by 3.7-fold.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration, the median Tmax for suzetrigine and M6-SUZ are 3 hours and 8 to 10 hours, respectively. The steady-state Cmax and AUC of suzetrigine are 0.62 mcg/mL and 11.5 mcg x hour/mL, respectively. The steady-state Cmax and AUC of M6-SUZ are 1.5 mcg/mL and 34.7 mcg x hour/mL, respectively. Time to 90% steady-state is 3 days for suzetrigine and 5 days for M6-SUZ with an accumulation ratio of 3.4 and 4.5, respectively, based on simulations of a dose of 50 mg PO every 12 hours. Administration of the initial suzetrigine 100 mg dose with a high-fat meal (800 to 1,000 calories, 50% derived from fat), a moderate-fat meal (600 calories, 30% derived from fat), and a low-fat meal (up to 500 calories, with no more than 25% derived from fat) resulted in decreased initial concentrations of suzetrigine and M6-SUZ in comparison to a fasted state. When administered in the fed state (high-fat meal or moderate-fat meal), the median Tmax of suzetrigine was delayed to 5 hours and the median Tmax of M6-SUZ was delayed to 24 hours. The Cmax and AUC of suzetrigine and M6-SUZ were not affected by any of the meal conditions, including a high-fat meal consumed 1 hour after suzetrigine administration. Administration of the subsequent suzetrigine 50 mg dose with or without regard to meals is predicted to not affect the systemic exposures of suzetrigine and M6-SUZ.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In individuals with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A), no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of suzetrigine and M6-SUZ were observed. In subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B), at steady-state, suzetrigine AUC increased by 1.5-fold (90% CI: 1.1 to 2.1) and Cmax increased by 1.3-fold (90% CI: 1 to 1.7), and M6-SUZ AUC and Cmax both increased by 1.2-fold (AUC 90% CI: 0.83 to 1.6; Cmax 90% CI: 0.84 to 1.6). The effect of severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) on suzetrigine and M6-SUZ pharmacokinetics is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of suzetrigine and M6-SUZ were observed based on eGFR 15 mL/minute or more. The effect of renal impairment with eGFR less than 15 mL/minute on suzetrigine and M6-SUZ pharmacokinetics is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of suzetrigine and M6-SUZ were observed based on age (18 to 75 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of suzetrigine and M6-SUZ were observed based on sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of suzetrigine and M6-SUZ were observed based on race.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of suzetrigine and M6-SUZ were observed based on body weight (44 to 126 kg).
  Text
  Suzetrigine is administered orally. Protein binding of suzetrigine and its major active metabolite M6-SUZ are 99% and 96%, respectively. The mean apparent Vd of suzetrigine is 495 L. Suzetrigine and M6-SUZ do not partition preferentially into human red blood cells. Suzetrigine and M6-SUZ are metabolized primarily by CYP3A. M6-SUZ is a less potent inhibitor of NaV1.8 than suzetrigine by 3.7-fold. The steady-state mean apparent oral clearance of suzetrigine is 13.9 L/hour. Suzetrigine is excreted in the feces (49.9%; 9.1% suzetrigine and the rest as metabolites) and urine (44% primarily as metabolites). The mean effective half-lives of suzetrigine and M6-SUZ are 23.6 hours and 33 hours, respectively.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A4, OAT1, OAT3, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, P-gp
Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are substrates of CYP3A4. M6-SUZ is also a substrate of P-gp. Suzetrigine inhibits CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, but is not expected to result in clinically significant drug interactions. Suzetrigine induces CYP3A and, to a lesser extent, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19. Suzetrigine inhibits OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and OAT3 but is not expected to result in clinically significant drug interactions. M6-SUZ inhibits OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, and OAT3 but is not expected to result in clinically significant drug interactions.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Swallow tablets whole; do not chew or crush tablets.
Administer the initial dose on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after food to avoid delay in onset.
Clear liquids (e.g., water, apple juice, vegetable broth, tea, black coffee) may be consumed during this time.
Administer subsequent doses with or without food.
Avoid food or drink containing grapefruit during treatment.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, administer the missed dose as soon as possible, then administer the next scheduled dose at the recommended time. If 2 or more doses are missed, administer 100 mg and then administer the next scheduled dose at the recommended time.
For individuals with moderate hepatic impairment or receiving moderate CYP3A inhibitors, administer the missed dose as soon as possible; if the next scheduled dose is within 6 hours, skip the next scheduled dose, and administer subsequent doses at the recommended times.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    150 mg/day PO with initial dose, otherwise 100 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    150 mg/day PO with initial dose, otherwise 100 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A): No dosage adjustment is needed.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B): 100 mg once, then 50 mg PO every 12 hours for 3 doses, and then 50 mg PO every 24 hours.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C): Avoid use.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 15 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
eGFR less than 15 mL/minute: Avoid use.
