=== Nelarabine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3458)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Nelarabine is a cytotoxic purine nucleoside analog.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 1,500 mg/m2 IV on days 1, 3, and 5.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, dehydration, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoalbuminemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, tumor lysis syndrome (tls), chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, sinus tachycardia, cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, pleural effusion, pneumothorax, wheezing, arthralgia, back pain, elevated creatine kinase, myalgia, rhabdomyolysis, weakness

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Nelarabine should be administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents. Nelarabine is contraindicated for use in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to nelarabine or any of its components. Emetic risk: Low Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1

Brand Names
  - Arranon

Dosage Forms
  - ARRANON 250mg/50mL Solution for Injection
  - Nelarabine 5mg/1mL Solution for injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of relapsed or refractory T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) or T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma following at least 2 prior chemotherapy regimens
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          1,500 mg/m2 IV over 2 hours on days 1, 3, and 5 repeated every 21 days; therapy was continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or bone marrow transplant in clinical trials. Therapy delay or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop toxicity. In a multicenter, phase 2 study (n = 39), treatment with nelarabine (median duration of therapy, 56 days; range, 10 to 136 days) led to a complete response (CR) rate of 21% (CR plus CR with incomplete hematologic recovery) in a subpopulation of patients (n = 28; median age, 34 years; range, 16 to 64 years) with relapsed or refractory T-cell ALL or lymphoblastic lymphoma who received at least 2 prior regimens; the time to CR ranged from 2.9 to 11.7 weeks. Additionally, the median overall survival time was 20.6 weeks in this study.
          Heading
          Children and Adolescents
          Dosage Description
          650 mg/m2 IV over 1 hour daily on days 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 repeated every 21 days; therapy was continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or bone marrow transplant in clinical trials. Therapy delay or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop toxicity. In a multicenter, phase 2 study (n = 84), treatment with nelarabine (median duration of therapy, 46 days; range, 7 to more than 129 days) led to a complete response (CR) rate of 23% (CR plus CR with incomplete hematologic recovery) in a subpopulation of patients (n = 39; median age, 11.9 years; range, 2.5 to 21.7 years) with relapsed or refractory T-cell ALL or lymphoblastic lymphoma who received at least 2 prior regimens. The median time to CR was 3.4 weeks and the duration of CR ranged from 3.3 to 9.3 weeks. Additionally, the median overall survival time was 13.1 weeks in this study.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of T-cell leukemia/lymphoma

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Nelarabine should be administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents.
 
Nelarabine is contraindicated for use in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to nelarabine or any of its components.
 
Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of neurological disease toxicity during nelarabine therapy. Severe neurologic events have been reported during nelarabine therapy such as altered mental status, severe somnolence, CNS effects including seizures, peripheral neuropathies ranging from numbness and paresthesias to motor weakness and paralysis, demyelination, and ascending peripheral neuropathies similar to Guillain-Barre syndrome. Full recovery from these events has not always occurred with nelarabine cessation. Patients previously treated with or concurrently receiving intrathecal chemotherapy or previously treated with craniospinal radiation therapy may be at increased risk for neurologic adverse events. If patients develop neurotoxicity consistent with National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria grade 2 or greater, nelarabine therapy should be discontinued. Patients should contact their healthcare provider if they experience new or worsening peripheral neuropathy. As nelarabine may cause somnolence, patients should be cautioned about driving or operating machinery during nelarabine therapy. Elderly patients (> 65 years) may experience an increased incidence of neurologic toxicities.
 
Nelarabine should be used cautiously in patients who have had previous myelosuppressive therapy such as chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Patients with severe bone marrow suppression, including neutropenia and thrombocytopenia, should not use nelarabine. Patients with aggressive leukemia or lymphoma may require treatment with nelarabine despite severe bone marrow suppression. Therefore, this drug should be used only by clinicians experienced in the use of cancer or immune suppression therapy. Patients with active infection, including fungal infection, should be treated prior to receiving nelarabine. Patients with a history of varicella zoster, other herpes infection (e.g., herpes simplex), or other viral infection are at risk for reactivation of the infection when treated with chemotherapy.
 
Myelosuppressive effects of nelarabine can increase the risk of infection or bleeding; therefore, dental work should be delayed until blood counts have returned to normal. Patients, especially those with dental disease, should be instructed in proper oral hygiene, including caution in use of regular toothbrushes, dental floss, and toothpicks.
 
Intramuscular injections should not be administered to patients with platelet counts 3 mg/dl); these patients should be closely monitored during nelarabine therapy.
 
The clearance of the active metabolite of nelarabine, ARA-G, is decreased as renal function is decreased. Because the risk of adverse reactions is greater in patients with severe renal impairment or renal failure (creatinine clearance = 2 weeks. The administration of live vaccines to immunocompromised patients should be avoided. Those undergoing chemotherapy should not be exposed to others who have recently received the oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV). Measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccination is not contraindicated for the close contacts, including health care professionals, of immunocompromised patients. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination. When exposed to a vaccine-preventable disease such as measles, severely immunocompromised children should be considered susceptible regardless of their vaccination history.
 
Nelarabine is for intravenous use only (see Administration). Intramuscular administration is not recommended.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Vaccination with live viral vaccines should be avoided in immunocompromised patients who are receiving nelarabine.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, craniospinal radiation therapy, driving or operating machinery, neurotoxicity
    General Information
    Patients who have received prior intrathecal chemotherapy or craniospinal radiation therapy may be at increased risk of developing neurologic adverse reactions. Serious and fatal neurotoxicity (e.g., coma, seizures, paralysis) has been reported with nelarabine use; some cases were irreversible. Monitor patients for signs or symptoms of neurotoxicity during therapy and for at least 24 hours after the completion of treatment. Discontinue nelarabine and provide supportive care in patients who develop grade 2 or higher neurologic adverse reactions. Because nelarabine may cause extreme drowsiness/somnolence during and for several days after therapy, patients should avoid driving or operating machinery or performing activities requiring coordination and concentration during this time.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use nelarabine with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C), including hepatic failure. The risk of nelarabine-related adverse reactions may be higher in patients with severe hepatic impairment (bilirubin level greater than 3-times the upper limit of normal); closely monitor these patients for signs or symptoms of toxicity.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use nelarabine with caution in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, including renal failure. The risk of nelarabine-related adverse reactions may be higher in patients with moderate (CrCl 30 to 50 mL/min) or severe (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) renal impairment; closely monitor these patients for signs or symptoms of toxicity.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Nelarabine may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Advise pregnant people of the potential fetal risk. Limited studies in pregnant individuals who received nelarabine during pregnancy are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk for major birth defects or fetal outcomes. However, animal studies show fetal risk. Embryo-fetal toxicities including cleft palate, absent gall bladder, absent accessory lung lobes, fused or extra sternebrae, and delayed ossification were observed in offspring of pregnant rabbits who received nelarabine doses resulting in drug exposures that were up to 2-times the recommended human exposure. Additionally, an increased rate of malformations, anomalies, and variations occurred in the offspring of pregnant rabbits who received nelarabine at doses that were about 25% of the recommended human dose.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with nelarabine therapy. Nelarabine can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking nelarabine. For those that can cause pregnancy in others (including those who have had vasectomies), contraception should be used during nelarabine treatment and for 3 months after the last dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking nelarabine, due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of nelarabine or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breast-fed child, or their effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Nelarabine may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Advise pregnant people of the potential fetal risk. Limited studies in pregnant individuals who received nelarabine during pregnancy are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk for major birth defects or fetal outcomes. However, animal studies show fetal risk. Embryo-fetal toxicities including cleft palate, absent gall bladder, absent accessory lung lobes, fused or extra sternebrae, and delayed ossification were observed in offspring of pregnant rabbits who received nelarabine doses resulting in drug exposures that were up to 2-times the recommended human exposure. Additionally, an increased rate of malformations, anomalies, and variations occurred in the offspring of pregnant rabbits who received nelarabine at doses that were about 25% of the recommended human dose.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with nelarabine therapy. Nelarabine can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking nelarabine. For those that can cause pregnancy in others (including those who have had vasectomies), contraception should be used during nelarabine treatment and for 3 months after the last dose.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Anticoagulants: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Apixaban: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Argatroban: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Beclomethasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Betamethasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Budesonide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Celecoxib: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciclesonide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
cloZAPine: (Major) It is unclear if concurrent use of other drugs known to cause neutropenia (e.g., antineoplastic agents) increases the risk or severity of clozapine-induced neutropenia. Because there is no strong rationale for avoiding clozapine in patients treated with these drugs, consider increased absolute neutrophil count (ANC) monitoring and consult the treating oncologist.
Corticosteroids: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Cortisone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Deflazacort: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
dexAMETHasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Diclofenac: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Diflunisal: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Some antineoplastic agents have been reported to decrease the absorption of digoxin tablets due to their adverse effects on the GI mucosa; the effect on digoxin liquid is not known. The reduction in digoxin tablet absorption has resulted in plasma concentrations that are 50% of pretreatment levels and has been clinically significant in some patients. It is prudent to closely monitor patients for loss of clinical efficacy of digoxin while receiving antineoplastic therapy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Edoxaban: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Etodolac: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Febuxostat: (Major) Coadministration of febuxostat and cytotoxic antineoplastic agents has not been studied. After antineoplastic therapy, tumor cell breakdown may greatly increase the rate of purine metabolism to uric acid. Febuxostat inhibits uric acid formation, but does not affect xanthine and hypoxanthine formation. An increased renal load of these two uric acid precursors can occur and result in xanthine nephropathy and calculi.
Fenoprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Filgrastim, G-CSF: (Major) Filgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and because antineoplastic agents exert their toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, filgrastim is contraindicated for use during the 24 hours before or after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Fludrocortisone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Flunisolide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Fluticasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Heparin: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Hydrocortisone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Indomethacin: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ketoprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Ketorolac: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Meloxicam: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
methylPREDNISolone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Mometasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Nabumetone: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Naproxen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Oxaprozin: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Pegfilgrastim: (Major) Filgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and, because antineoplastic agents exert their toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, filgrastim is contraindicated for use during the 24 hours before or after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Piroxicam: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Platelet Inhibitors: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
prednisoLONE: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
predniSONE: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Rivaroxaban: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Sulindac: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Tbo-Filgrastim: (Major) Filgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and because antineoplastic agents exert their toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, filgrastim is contraindicated for use during the 24 hours before or after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Tolmetin: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants, NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, strontium-89 chloride, and thrombolytic agents. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Triamcinolone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Neurotoxicity is the dose-limiting toxicity of nelarabine, and patients previously treated with or concurrently receiving intrathecal chemotherapy or previously treated with craniospinal radiation therapy may be at increased risk for neurologic adverse events. Severe neurologic events such as impaired cognition (altered mental status), severe somnolence, and peripheral neuropathies ranging from numbness and paresthesias to motor weakness and paralysis have been reported during nelarabine therapy. Nervous system events, regardless of drug relationship, were reported in 64% of patients in phase I and II studies. In one phase I study, the onset of neurologic symptoms was typically within 12 days of starting nelarabine therapy. In 103 adult patients in clinical trials, the most common neurologic adverse effects, regardless of causality, associated with nelarabine therapy include somnolence/drowsiness (23%); dizziness (21%); peripheral neuropathy (21%) including neuropathy (4%), motor (7%) and sensory (13%) neuropathy; hypoesthesia (17%); headache (15%); paresthesias (15%); ataxia (9%); depressed level of consciousness (6%); tremor (5%); amnesia (3%); dysgeusia (3%); balance disorder (2%); and sensory loss (2%). Most nervous system events were evaluated as grade 1 or 2. Additional grade 3 or 4 neurologic events reported in clinical trials, regardless of causality, include aphasia (grade 3), cerebral hemorrhage (grade 4), coma (grade 4), intracranial bleeding (grade 4), leukoencephalopathy (grade 4), metabolic encephalopathy (grade 4), seizures (grade 3), hemiparesis (grade 3), and loss consciousness (grade 3), each reported in 1 patient (1%). The incidence of cerebral hemorrhage associated with coma and leukoencephalopathy was fatal and thought to be due to nelarabine treatment. Other neurologic adverse events reported during nelarabine clinical trials in adults include abnormal coordination, burning sensation, disturbance in attention, dysarthria, hyporeflexia, neuropathic pain, nystagmus, peroneal nerve palsy, sciatica, sensory disturbance, sinus headache, and speech disorder (dysphonia), each reported in 1 patient (1%). In 84 pediatric patients, the most common neurologic adverse reactions, regardless of causality, associated with nelarabine in clinical trials include headache (17%); peripheral neuropathy (12%) including motor (4%) and sensory (6%) neuropathy; somnolence/drowsiness (7%); hypoesthesia (6%); seizures (6%) including grand mal seizures (1%) and status epilepticus (1%); motor dysfunction (4%); nervous system disorder (4%); paresthesia (4%); tremor (4%); and ataxia (2%). The incidence of status epilepticus was fatal and thought to be due to nelarabine. Other grade 3 and 4 neurologic events in pediatric patients, regardless of causality, were hypertonia (grade 3), 3rd cranial nerve paralysis (grade 4), and 6th cranial nerve paralysis (grade 4), each occurring in 1 patient (1%). There have also been reports of neurologic events associated with demyelination and ascending peripheral neuropathies similar in appearance to Guillain-Barre syndrome. Full recovery form these events has not always occurred with cessation of nelarabine therapy. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of neurologic events. Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider if they experience new or worsening peripheral neuropathy. Nelarabine therapy should be discontinued for neurologic events of National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria grade 2 or higher.Hematologic toxicities are common in patients treated with nelarabine. In pediatric patients treated with nelarabine during clinical trials (n=84), hematologic events reported include anemia (95%), neutropenia (94%), thrombocytopenia (88%), and leukopenia (38%). Infection was reported in 5% of pediatric patients. Fatalities were associated with neutropenia and pyrexia (1 patient) and fungal infection (1 patient) occurred following nelarabine treatment. In 103 adult patients treated with nelarabine during clinical trials, the following hematologic adverse events were reported: anemia (99%), thrombocytopenia (86%), neutropenia (81%), febrile neutropenia (12%), petechiae (12%), and epistaxis (8%). Adult patients treated with nelarabine experience infections (9%), including pneumonia (8%) and sinusitis (7%). One case of pneumonia was fatal in the clinical trial; although, it was thought to be unrelated to nelarabine therapy.Gastrointestinal adverse reactions are common in both adult and pediatric patients treated with nelarabine. In pediatric patients, vomiting was reported in 10% of patients in clinical trials. In the 103 adult patients treated in nelarabine during clinical trials, the following gastrointestinal adverse reactions were reported: anorexia (9%), dehydration (7%), hyperglycemia (6%), nausea/vomiting (41%/22%), diarrhea (22%), constipation (21%), abdominal pain (9%), stomatitis (8%), and abdominal distention (6%).Elevated hepatic enzymes were reported in 6% of adult patients and 12% of pediatric patients treated with nelarabine during clinical trials. Pediatric patients also experienced hypoalbuminemia (10%) and hyperbilirubinemia (10%).Nelarabine-induced cellular destruction can result in tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) which includes hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hyperuricemia, and hypocalcemia. Uric acid nephropathy, acute renal failure due to renal tubular obstruction, metabolic acidosis, and nephrolithiasis can also occur. These problems are more severe when a highly chemosensitive disease is treated (i.e., leukemia or lymphoma). Aggressive alkalinization of the urine and use of allopurinol can prevent urate nephropathy; close monitoring of serum electrolytes and renal function is recommended. In pediatric clinical trials, hypokalemia (11%), hypocalcemia (8%), decreased serum creatinine (6%), hypoglycemia (6%), and hypomagnesemia (6%) were reported.Cardiovascular events were reported in adult patients treated with nelarabine during clinical trials. Hypotension (8%), sinus tachycardia (8%), and chest pain (unspecified) (5%) were reported. One case of hypotension was fatal during nelarabine clinical trials but the occurrence was thought to be unrelated to treatment to nelarabine.Cough (25%), dyspnea (20%), pleural effusion (10%), exertional dyspnea (7%), and wheezing (5%) were reported in adult patients receiving nelarabine during clinical trials. Fatal cases of respiratory arrest and pleural effusion/pneumothorax were reported during nelarabine clinical trials; however, it was determined that these events were unrelated to treatment with nelarabine.During adult clinical trials, the following adverse reactions were reported: fatigue (50%), pyrexia/fever (23%), asthenia (17%), peripheral edema (15%), myalgia (13%), edema (11%), pain (unspecified) (11%), arthralgia (9%), back pain (8%), confusion (8%), myasthenia/muscular weakness (8%), rigors (8%), insomnia (7%), pain in extremity (7%), abnormal gait (6%), depression (6%) non-cardiac chest pain (5%), and blurred vision (4%). Asthenia (6%) was reported in pediatric clinical trials of nelarabine.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    amnesia, aphasia, ataxia, coma, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, dysesthesia, dysgeusia, encephalopathy, Guillain-Barre syndrome, headache, hydrocephalus, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, hyporeflexia, intracranial bleeding, lethargy, leukoencephalopathy, muscle paralysis, neuropathic pain, neurotoxicity, nystagmus, paresis, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, seizures, tremor
    General Information
    Neurotoxicity (e.g., dysesthesia, cerebellar disturbances) has been reported in 76% of adult patients (grade 3 or higher, 19%) and 42% of pediatric patients (grade 3 or higher, 15%) who received nelarabine in phase 1 and 2 trials; in some cases, a full recovery was not achieved after discontinuing therapy. The median times to the first event were 5 days (range, 1 to 166 days) and 8 days (range, 1 to 269 days) from the first nelarabine infusion in adult and pediatric patients, respectively; the median durations of toxicity were 6 days (range, 1 to 393 days) and 2 days (range, 1 to 82 days), respectively. Patients who have received prior intrathecal chemotherapy or craniospinal radiation therapy and geriatric patients 65 years and older may be at increased risk of developing neurologic adverse reactions. Monitor patients for signs or symptoms of neurotoxicity during therapy and for at least 24 hours after the completion of treatment. Discontinue nelarabine and provide supportive care in patients who develop grade 2 or higher neurologic adverse reactions. In a pooled analysis of 2 studies (n = 103), neurologic adverse events reported in adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL)/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine include somnolence/drowsiness (23%), dizziness (21%), any peripheral neurologic disorders (21%; grade 3, 2%), neuropathy (4%), peripheral neuropathy (5%; grade 3, 1%), motor peripheral neuropathy (7%; grade 3, 1%), sensory peripheral neuropathy (13%), paresthesias (15%), ataxia (9%; grade 3, 2%), depressed level of consciousness (6%; grade 4, 1%), abnormal gait (6%), tremor (5%), amnesia (3%), dysgeusia (3%), balance disorder (2%), sensory loss (2%), hypoesthesia (17%; grade 3, 2%), and headache (15%; grade 3, 1%). Abnormal coordination, burning sensation, disturbance in attention, dysarthria, hyporeflexia, neuropathic pain, nystagmus, peroneal nerve palsy, sciatica, sensory disturbance, sinus headache, and speech disorder; grade 3 aphasia, convulsions (seizures), hemi-paresis, and loss of consciousness; and grade 4 cerebral hemorrhage, coma, intracranial bleeding, biopsy-confirmed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, and metabolic encephalopathy were each reported in 1 patient (1%). One patient with cerebral hemorrhage/coma/leukoencephalopathy died. Additionally, headache (17%; grade 3, 4%; grade 4, 2%), any peripheral neurologic disorders (12%; grade 3, 7%), peripheral neuropathy (6%; grade 3, 2%), motor peripheral neuropathy (4%; grade 3, 2%), sensory peripheral neuropathy (grade 3 only, 6%), drowsiness (7%; grade 3, 1%; grade 4, 1%), hypoesthesia (6%; grade 3, 4%), seizures (grade 4 only, 6%), convulsions (4%; grade 3, 3%), grand mal convulsions (grade 4 only, 1%), status epilepticus (grade 5 only, 1%), motor dysfunction (4%; grade 3, 1%), nervous system disorder (4%), paresthesias (4%; grade 3, 1%), tremor (4%), and ataxia (2%; grade 3, 1%) occurred in pediatric patients (age range, 2.5 to 21.7 years) with T-ALL/T-LBL who received nelarabine (n = 84) in a clinical study. Dysarthria, encephalopathy, hydrocephalus, hyporeflexia, lethargy, mental impairment, muscle paralysis, and sensory loss; grade 3 hypertonia; and grade 4 third nerve paralysis and sixth nerve paralysis were each reported in 1 patient (1%). One patient with status epilepticus died. In postmarketing surveillance, demyelination and ascending peripheral neuropathies similar in appearance to Guillain-Barre syndrome have been reported in patients who received nelarabine therapy. Grade 3 or 4 motor and sensory neuropathy was reported more often in patients (age range, 1 to 29 years) with newly diagnosed T-ALL or T-LBL (off-label use) who received nelarabine plus chemotherapy (n = 411) compared with chemotherapy alone (n = 393) after initial induction therapy in a randomized trial. Additionally, seizures occurred in 3% of nelarabine-treated patients; there was 1 fatal neurological adverse reaction in the nelarabine arm.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      neurotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle paralysis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hydrocephalus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      encephalopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nystagmus
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neuropathic pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukoencephalopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyporeflexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      Guillain-Barre syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      coma
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      aphasia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic toxicity has been reported in patients who received nelarabine in clinical studies. Children may be at increased risk of developing hematologic toxicity. Monitor complete blood counts including platelets regularly. Consider a delay in therapy in patients who develop hematologic toxicity.In a pooled analysis of 2 studies (n = 103), hematologic toxicity reported in adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL)/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine include thrombocytopenia (86%; grade 3, 37%; grade 4, 22%), anemia (99%; grade 3, 20%; grade 4, 14%), neutropenia (81%; grade 3, 14%; grade 4, 49%), and febrile neutropenia (12%; grade 3, 9%; grade 4, 1%). Additionally, thrombocytopenia (a88%; grade 3, 27%; grade 4, 32%), anemia (95%; grade 3, 45%; grade 4, 10%), neutropenia (94%; grade 3, 17%; grade 4, 62%), and leukopenia (38%; grade 3, 14%; grade 4, 7%) occurred in pediatric patients (age range, 2.5 to 21.7 years) with T-ALL/T-LBL who received IV nelarabine (n = 84) in a clinical study. One patient with febrile neutropenia in this study died.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, dehydration, diarrhea, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of 2 studies (n = 103), gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events reported in adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL)/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine include nausea (41%), diarrhea (22%; grade 3, 1%), vomiting (22%; grade 3, 1%), constipation (21%; grade 3, 1%), abdominal pain (9%; grade 3, 1%), abdominal distention (6%), anorexia (9%), dehydration (7%; grade 3, 3%; grade 4, 1%), and stomatitis (8%; grade 3, 1%). Additionally, vomiting occurred in 10% of pediatric patients (age range, 2.5 to 21.7 years) with T-ALL/T-LBL who received nelarabine (n = 84) in a clinical study. Grade 3 or 4 nausea/vomiting and dehydration were reported more often in patients (age range, 1 to 29 years) with newly diagnosed T-ALL or T-LBL (off-label use) who received nelarabine plus chemotherapy (n = 411) compared with chemotherapy alone (n = 393) after initial induction therapy in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), elevated hepatic enzymes, specifically increased AST level was reported in 6% of adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL)/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine; grade 3 (1%) and grade 4 (1%) increased AST levels also occurred in nelarabine-treated patients. Elevated transaminase levels (12%; grade 3, 4%), hyperbilirubinemia (10%; grade 3, 7%; grade 4, 2%), and hypoalbuminemia (10%; grade 3, 5%; grade 4, 1%) occurred in pediatric patients (age range, 2.5 to 21.7 years) with T-ALL/T-LBL who received IV nelarabine (n = 84) in a clinical study. Grade 3 or 4 abnormal transaminase levels were reported more often in patients (age range, 1 to 29 years) with newly diagnosed T-ALL or T-LBL (off-label use) who received nelarabine plus chemotherapy (n = 411) compared with chemotherapy alone (n = 393) after initial induction therapy in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, tumor lysis syndrome (TLS)
    General Information
    Hyperuricemia may occur in patients who receive nelarabine therapy. In postmarketing surveillance, tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) has been reported with nelarabine use. Take precautions to prevent hyperuricemia and TLS such as administering adequate hydration, urine alkalinization, and prophylactic allopurinol. In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), hyperglycemia occurred in 6% of adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL)/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine; grade 3 hyperglycemia was reported in 1% of patients. Additionally, potassium decreased/hypokalemia (11%; grade 3, 4%; grade 4, 2%), calcium decreased/hypocalcemia (8%; grade 3, 1%; grade 4, 1%), and magnesium decreased/hypomagnesemia (6%; grade 3, 2%), glucose decreased/hypoglycemia (6%; grade 3, 4%), and creatinine increased (6%) occurred in pediatric patients (age range, 2.5 to 21.7 years) T-ALL/T-LBL who received nelarabine (n = 84) in a clinical study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tumor lysis syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), sinus tachycardia (8%; grade 3, 1%), hypotension (8%; grade 3, 1%; grade 5, 1%), and chest pain (unspecified) (5%) were reported in adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine. In this analysis, 1 patient with hypotension died.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, pleural effusion, pneumothorax, wheezing
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), respiratory system adverse events reported in adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine include cough (25%), dyspnea (20%; grade 3, 4%; grade 4, 2%), exertional dyspnea (7%), pleural effusion (10%; grade 3, 5%; grade 5, 1%), epistaxis (8%), and wheezing (5%). In this analysis, 1 patient with respiratory arrest and 1 patient with pleural effusion/pneumothorax died.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumothorax
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, sinusitis
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), infection (9%; grade 3, 2%; grade 4/5, 1%), pneumonia (8%; grade 3, 4%; grade 5, 1%), and sinusitis (7%; grade 3, 1%) were reported in adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL)/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine. In this analysis, 1 patient with pneumonia died. Infection occurred in 5% of pediatric patients (age range, 2.5 to 21.7 years) with T-ALL/T-LBL who received nelarabine (n = 84) in a clinical study; additionally, grade 3 (2%) and grade 4 and 5 (1%) infection occurred in nelarabine-treated patients. One patient with a fungal pneumonia in this study died. In postmarketing surveillance, fatal opportunistic infections have been reported with nelarabine use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, elevated creatine kinase, myalgia, rhabdomyolysis, weakness
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), myalgia (13%; grade 3, 1%), arthralgia (9%; grade 3, 1%), back pain (8%), muscle weakness (8%; grade 3, 5%), pain (11%; grade 3, 3%), non-cardiac chest pain (5%; grade 4, 1%), and extremity pain (7%; grade 3, 1%) were reported in adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine. In postmarketing surveillance, rhabdomyolysis and elevated creatine kinase have been reported with nelarabine use. Rhabdomyolysis was reported in 2% of patients (age range, 1 to 29 years) with newly diagnosed T-ALL or T-LBL (off-label use) who received nelarabine plus chemotherapy (n = 411) after initial induction therapy in a randomized trial. Rhabdomyolysis occurred after the first course of nelarabine during the consolidation phase of therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    confusion, depression, insomnia
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), confusion (8%; grade 3, 2%), insomnia (7%), and depression (6%; grade 3, 1%) were reported in adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    petechiae
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), petechiae occurred in 12% of adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine; grade 3 petechiae occurred in 2% of nelarabine-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      petechiae
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), fatigue (50%; grade 3, 10%; grade 4, 2%) and asthenia (17%; grade 4, 1%) were reported in adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL)/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine. Asthenia occurred in 6% of pediatric patients (age range, 2.5 to 21.7 years) with T-ALL/T-LBL who received IV nelarabine (n = 84) in a clinical study. Additionally, grade 3 asthenia occurred in 1% of nelarabine-treated patients in this study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chills, fever
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), fever (23%; grade 3, 5%) and chills (8%) were reported in adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), edema (11%) and peripheral edema (15%) were reported in adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 studies (n = 103), blurred vision occurred in 4% of adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who received IV nelarabine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Nelarabine is a cytotoxic purine nucleoside analog. It is indicated for the treatment of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma in pediatric patients 1 year of age or older and adults with relapsed or refractory disease following at least 2 prior chemotherapy regimens. Severe neurologic adverse reactions have been reported with nelarabine therapy; therefore, monitor patients closely.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Nelarabine is as a prodrug for deoxyguanosine analogue 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosylguanine (Ara-G), which acts as a cytotoxic agent and inhibits DNA synthesis. Upon administration, nelarabine, is rapidly demethylated by adenosine deaminase (ADA) to Ara-G. Ara-G is transported into cells by nucleoside transporters. Once inside the cell, Ara-G is mono-phosphorylated, and converted to the active 5'-triphosphate, Ara-GTP. Accumulation of Ara-GTP in leukemic blasts allows for incorporation into DNA. Incorporation into DNA halts DNA synthesis and causes cell death. Other mechanisms of action include inhibition of RNA synthesis and ribonucleotide reductase inhibition. Ara-G is thought to be more toxic to T-lymphoblasts than other blast cells due to enhanced accumulation of Ara-GTP in T-cells and increased elimination of Ara-GTP from B-cells. The clinical efficacy of nelarabine is associated with the intracellular concentrations of Ara-G.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    Following nelarabine 1,500 mg/m2 IV administered over 2 hours, the mean peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) for nelarabine and Ara-G were 5 (+/- 3) and 31.4 (+/- 5.6) mcg/mL, respectively, in adult patients with refractory leukemia or lymphoma. The mean AUC values were 4.4 (+/- 2.2) and 162 (+/- 49) mcg X hour/mL for nelarabine and Ara-G, respectively. Nelarabine does accumulate after multiple doses.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Compared with 67 patients who had normal renal function (creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 80 mL/min), the mean apparent clearance values of Ara-G were about 15% and 40% lower in patients with mild (n = 15; CrCl of 50 to 80 mL/min) or moderate (n = 3; CrCl less than 50 mL/min) renal impairment, respectively, in pooled results from phase 1 trials.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Following nelarabine doses of 104 to 2,900 mg/m2 in 22 pediatric patients, the mean clearance of nelarabine and Ara-G were 259 (+/- 409) and 11.3 (+/- 4.2) L/hour/m2 on day 1; the mean terminal half-lives were 13 minutes and 2 hours, respectively. The mean steady-state volume of distribution (Vd) was 213 (+/- 358) L/m2 for nelarabine and the mean steady-state Vd/F was 33 (+/- 9.3) L/m2 for Ara-G.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age does not affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of nelarabine or Ara-G in adult patients.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender does not affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of nelarabine or Ara-G.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    In white patients (n = 63) compared with black patients (n = 15), the mean clearance and volume of distribution (Vd) values of nelarabine were higher by about 10% and the mean clearance and Vd values of Ara-G were lower by about 15% to 20%. No difference in the safety or efficacy of nelarabine therapy was observed.
  Text
  Nelarabine is administered as an intravenously. It is a prodrug of 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosylguanine (Ara-G). Nelarabine and Ara-G are minimally bound to plasma proteins (less than 25%) in vitro; binding is independent for concentrations up to 600 micromolar. The mean steady-state volume of distribution values are 197 (+/- 216) and 50 (+/- 24) L/m2. Nelarabine is metabolized mainly by O-demethylation via adenosine deaminase to form Ara-G; some nelarabine is hydrolyzed to methylguanine which is then O-demethylated to form guanine. Ara-G undergoes hydrolysis to form guanine. Guanine is N-deaminated to form xanthine which is oxidized to uric acid. Following nelarabine doses of 199 to 2,900 mg/m2 in 66 adult patients, the mean clearance of nelarabine and Ara-G were 197 (+/- 189) and 10.5 (+/- 4.5) L/hour/m2 on day 1; the mean terminal half-lives were 18 minutes and 3.2 hours, respectively. The mean 24 hour renal excretion of nelarabine and Ara-G were 6.6% (+/- 4.7%) and 27% (+/- 15%) of the administered dose on day 1 in 28 adult patients; the renal clearance values were 24 (+/- 23) and 6.2 (+/- 5) L/hour, respectively, in 21 patients.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none
Nelarabine and Ara-G did not significantly inhibit the activity of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4 in vitro at concentrations up to 100 micromolar.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.
Emetic Risk
Low
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
Recommended Prophylaxis
Administer IV hydration and other prophylactic measures such as urine alkalinization and anti-uric acid medications (e.g., allopurinol) in patients at risk for tumor lysis syndrome or hyperuricemia.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Transfer the appropriate amount of nelarabine to a polyvinylchloride (PVC) infusion bag or glass container; do not dilute prior to administration.
Storage: Nelarabine is stable in polyvinylchloride (PVC) bags or glass containers for up to 8 hours at up to 30 degrees C.
Intravenous infusion
Administer as an IV infusion over 2 hours in adults and 1 hour in pediatric patients.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1,500 mg/m2 IV on days 1, 3, and 5.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1,500 mg/m2 IV on days 1, 3, and 5.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    650 mg/m2/day IV for 5 days.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    650 mg/m2/day IV for 5 days.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustment is needed.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is required for patients with a creatinine clearance (CrCl) of 50 mL/min or greater. There are insufficient data to support a dose recommendation for patients who have a CrCl less than 50 mL/min.
