=== Sevabertinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5636)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Sevabertinib is a reversible HER2 inhibitor approved for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors have HER2 tyrosine kinase domain (TKD) activating mutations.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg PO twice daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis, blurred vision, cataracts, conjunctival hyperemia, conjunctivitis, lacrimation, ocular hypertension, ocular pain, ocular toxicity, visual impairment, xerophthalmia, cheilitis, oral ulceration, arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, atrial tachycardia, av block, bradycardia, qt prolongation, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (svt), anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pulmonary disease Use sevabertinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in... Emetic risk: Minimal/low

Brand Names
  - HYRNUO

Dosage Forms
  - HYRNUO 10mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients with HER2 (ERBB2) tyrosine kinase domain (TKD) activating mutations
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          20 mg PO twice daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment with sevabertinib resulted in an objective response rate (ORR) of 75% (complete response [CR], 6%) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC with HER2 (ERBB2) TKD activating mutations who have not received prior systemic therapy in a multicenter, multicohort, single-arm, open-label study (SOHO-01). The duration of response ranged from 1.5 to 21.6+ months, with 73% having a duration of at least 6 months and 38% having a duration of at least 12 months. The ORR was 71% (CR, 2.9%) for a median duration of 9.2 months in patients who had received prior systemic therapy but were naive to HER2 targeted therapy; the duration was at least 6 months in 54% of these patients, and at least 12 months in 18%. Treatment resulted in an ORR of 38% (CR, 6%) for a median duration of 7 months in patients who had received prior systemic therapy that included HER2-targeted antibody-drug conjugates.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use sevabertinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with sevabertinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt sevabertinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.
    Headline
    ocular disease
    General Information
    Use sevabertinib with caution in patients with a history of ocular disease. Ocular toxicity was reported in patients who received sevabertinib. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of visual impairment. Promptly refer patients with new or worsening eye symptoms to an ophthalmologist; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of sevabertinib during pregnancy. Sevabertinib can cause fetal harm, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. Administration of sevabertinib to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in reduced maternal and fetal body weight at exposures greater than or equal to 0.18 times the human exposure based on AUC at the recommended dose. In mouse models, HER2/EGFR has been shown to be critically important in reproductive and developmental processes including blastocyst implantation, placental development, and embryo-fetal/postnatal survival and development. Animal studies in vitro assays have demonstrated that inhibition of HER2 and/or EGFR results in structural abnormalities, alteration to growth, and embryo-fetal and infant mortality. In a human-induced pluripotent stem cell-based assay, sevabertinib reduced cardiomyocyte and hepatocyte differentiation markers. Apprise individuals receiving sevabertinib of the potential hazard to the fetus.
    Headline
    coronary artery disease, hypertension, left ventricular dysfunction, thoracic radiation therapy
    General Information
    Use sevabertinib with caution in patients with a history of left ventricular dysfunction, or in patients with conditions that could impair left ventricular function including coronary artery disease, uncontrolled hypertension, thoracic radiation therapy and previous anthracycline exposure. Sevabertinib can cause severe left ventricular dysfunction and has not been studied in patients with a history of clinically significant cardiac disease or LV ejection fraction (LVEF) less than 50% prior to initiation of treatment. Evaluate the LVEF at baseline and at regular intervals during treatment and as clinically indicated; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if LV dysfunction occurs, depending on the severity.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel individuals treated with sevabertinib about the associated reproductive risk. Sevabertinib may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking sevabertinib and for 1 week after the last dose. For people who can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during sevabertinib treatment and for 1 week after the last dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during sevabertinib treatment and for 1 week after the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of sevabertinib or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of sevabertinib during pregnancy. Sevabertinib can cause fetal harm, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. Administration of sevabertinib to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in reduced maternal and fetal body weight at exposures greater than or equal to 0.18 times the human exposure based on AUC at the recommended dose. In mouse models, HER2/EGFR has been shown to be critically important in reproductive and developmental processes including blastocyst implantation, placental development, and embryo-fetal/postnatal survival and development. Animal studies in vitro assays have demonstrated that inhibition of HER2 and/or EGFR results in structural abnormalities, alteration to growth, and embryo-fetal and infant mortality. In a human-induced pluripotent stem cell-based assay, sevabertinib reduced cardiomyocyte and hepatocyte differentiation markers. Apprise individuals receiving sevabertinib of the potential hazard to the fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during sevabertinib treatment and for 1 week after the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of sevabertinib or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. If sevabertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with sevabertinib may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with sevabertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sevabertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If sevabertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. If sevabertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If sevabertinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and adagrasib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of sevabertinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of sevabertinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. If sevabertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If sevabertinib is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with sevabertinib due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and sevabertinib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with sevabertinib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with aprepitant/fosaprepitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of sevabertinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus sevabertinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with sevabertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sevabertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. If sevabertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If sevabertinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and atazanavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and atazanavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If sevabertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with berotralstat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and sevabertinib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when sevabertinib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping sevabertinib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If sevabertinib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and sevabertinib can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when sevabertinib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping sevabertinib, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If sevabertinib is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with sevabertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sevabertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with sevabertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sevabertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and carbamazepine; concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Carbamazepine exposure may also increase. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of sevabertinib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and ceritinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and chloramphenicol. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with sevabertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sevabertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If sevabertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ciprofloxacin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and sevabertinib; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with sevabertinib and monitor for adverse reactions. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A; sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with sevabertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sevabertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with sevabertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sevabertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with sevabertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sevabertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with sevabertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sevabertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with sevabertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sevabertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with sevabertinib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of sevabertinib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If sevabertinib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and sevabertinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with conivaptan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with crizotinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects of both drugs if concomitant use of cyclosporine and sevabertinib is necessary; a cyclosporine dosage decrease may be required. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both cyclosporine and sevabertinib. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dabigatran overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with diltiazem is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sevabertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sevabertinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sevabertinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with duvelisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with sevabertinib. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of sevabertinib. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of sevabertinib; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sevabertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sevabertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of eliglustat and sevabertinib is not recommended in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sevabertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sevabertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sevabertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with sevabertinib due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and ensitrelvir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with erythromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fedratinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and sevabertinib should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. If sevabertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If sevabertinib is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperkalemia and reduce the finerenone dosage as appropriate based on observed changes in serum potassium values if concomitant use of finerenone and sevabertinib is required. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk for finerenone-related adverse effects, such as hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased finerenone overall exposure by 21%.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors, including sevabertinib, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fluconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fluvoxamine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with fosamprenavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glecaprevir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glecaprevir exposure. Glecaprevir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during sevabertinib treatment due to the risk of increased sevabertinib exposure and adverse reactions. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If sevabertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If sevabertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If sevabertinib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and idelalisib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with imatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with isavuconazonium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and itraconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sevabertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sevabertinib with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks, as concomitant use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; concomitant use may also increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with sevabertinib as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with letermovir is necessary. Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine. If concomitant use with letermovir plus cyclosporine is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and lonafarnib. If concomitant use is necessary, a dosage reduction of both drugs is required. Reduce the sevabertinib dose by half (from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily, or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily); hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk for adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor and lonafarnib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and ritonavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with sevabertinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. If sevabertinib is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with sevabertinib can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. If sevabertinib is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with sevabertinib can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and sevabertinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased midazolam overall exposure by 2-fold.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and mifepristone. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with sevabertinib. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and sevabertinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and nefazodone. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and nelfinavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with netupitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with nilotinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A and sevabertinib is a dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and ritonavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with nirogacestat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with sevabertinib due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. If sevabertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like sevabertinib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If sevabertinib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and sevabertinib due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit BCRP or P-gp.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and sevabertinib. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate, and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and posaconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Use may also increase posaconazole exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and posaconazole is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 1.8-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and sevabertinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with sevabertinib; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and sevabertinib with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and relacorilant. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral sevabertinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer sevabertinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of sevabertinib is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral sevabertinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer sevabertinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of sevabertinib is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease sevabertinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy, and increase repotrectinib exposure, which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and ribociclib when ribociclib is used at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. If concomitant use with ribociclib 400 mg/day is necessary, monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and ribociclib when ribociclib is used at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. If concomitant use with ribociclib 400 mg/day is necessary, monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with sevabertinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and ritonavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use increased rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.3-fold.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use increased rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.3-fold.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and saquinavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Use may also increase saquinavir exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and saquinavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and sevabertinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of sevabertinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if sevabertinib must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. If sevabertinib is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like sevabertinib can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If sevabertinib is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sevabertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and tipranavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Use may also increase tipranavir exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and tipranavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sevabertinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; sevabertinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of sevabertinib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of sevabertinib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with sevabertinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and tucatinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk for ubrogepant-related adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with sevabertinib due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of sevabertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of sevabertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and voriconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with sevabertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    diarrhea
    General Information
    Diarrhea including enterocolitis occurred in 89% of patients treated with sevabertinib in a pooled safety population (n = 287) (grade 3, 16%); the median time to first onset was 4 days. Grade 3 diarrhea was more common in patients aged 75 years or older (26%) compared to those younger than 75 (15%). Higher sevabertinib exposure was associated with an increased incidence of diarrhea. Patients should start antidiarrheal treatment (e.g., loperamide) and increase fluid and electrolyte intake at the first sign of increased bowel frequency or diarrhea; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity occurred in 29% of patients treated with sevabertinib in a pooled safety population (n = 287) (grade 3, 3.1%; grade 4, 0.3%). Based on laboratory data, this included elevated hepatic enzymes such as increased ALT (41%; grade 3 or 4, 2.9%) and increased AST (44%; grade 3, 2.5%); an increase in alkaline phosphatase was additionally reported in 25% of patients who received sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of patients from a single-arm, open-label trial (grade 3, 0.5%). Hyperbilirubinemia has also been reported, with increases from baseline in bilirubin reported in 15% of the pooled safety population. The median time to first onset of transaminitis was 1.4 months. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hepatotoxicity occurs, depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis
    General Information
    Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis occurred in 4 patients (1.4%) treated with sevabertinib in a pooled safety population (n = 287) (grade 3, 0.3%). Severe cases of dyspnea was reported in 3.1% of patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial. Permanently discontinue sevabertinib if a diagnosis of ILD/pneumonitis is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial lung disease
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, cataracts, conjunctival hyperemia, conjunctivitis, lacrimation, ocular hypertension, ocular pain, ocular toxicity, visual impairment, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Ocular toxicity occurred in 17% of patients treated with sevabertinib in a pooled safety population (n = 287) (grade 3, 0.3%), including 1 case of corneal epithelial microcysts with temporary unilateral blindness. Ocular toxicity including unilateral blindness, cataracts, conjunctivitis, corneal epithelial microcysts, ocular pain, increased lacrimation, conjunctival hyperemia, ocular hypertension, blurred vision, reduced visual acuity, visual impairment, and xerophthalmia was reported in 16% of patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial (grade 3, 0.5%). Promptly refer patients with new or worsening eye symptoms to an ophthalmologist; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cataracts
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctival hyperemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular toxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      lacrimation
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hyperamylasemia
    General Information
    Hyperamylasemia as well as elevated lipase levels can occur with sevabertinib therapy. In a pooled safety population (n = 287), increases from baseline in lipase (48%; grade 3, 13%; grade 4, 1.1%) and amylase (39%; grade 3, 3.9%; grade 4, 0.7%) were each reported in patients treated with sevabertinib with a median time to onset of 0.7 months.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperamylasemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cheilitis, oral ulceration, stomatitis
    General Information
    Stomatitis occurred in 37% of patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial, including cheilitis, oral ulceration, and mucosal inflammation (grade 3, 1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cheilitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea (22%; grade 3 or 4, 2.1%) and vomiting (19%; grade 3, 4.2%) were reported in patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain
    General Information
    Abdominal pain occurred in 14% of patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, onycholysis, Onychomadesis, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), pruritus, rash, xerosis
    General Information
    Rash (76%; grade 3, 1.6%), paronychia (36%; grade 3, 1%), xerosis (18%), and pruritus (16%; grade 3, 1%) were reported in patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial; higher sevabertinib exposure was associated with an increased incidence of rash. The term rash included acneiform rash, eczema, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), erythematous rash, maculopapular rash, pustular rash, and exfoliative dermatitis. The term paronychia included ingrown nail, nail disorder, onychoclasis, onycholysis, and onychomadesis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      onycholysis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      Onychomadesis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anorexia, weight loss
    General Information
    Anorexia (19%; grade 3, 2.6%) and weight loss (22%; grade 3, 0.5%) occurred in patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue including asthenia occurred in 17% of patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial (grade 3, 2.6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    alopecia
    General Information
    Alopecia occurred in 7% of patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, atrial tachycardia, AV block, bradycardia, QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
    General Information
    Cardiac arrhythmias occurred in 10% of patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial, including arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, atrial tachycardia, first degree AV block, complete AV block, QT prolongation, sinus bradycardia, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular extrasystoles, and supraventricular tachycardia (SVT).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      atrial tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      AV block
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    pleural effusion
    General Information
    Pleural effusion occurred in 2.1% of patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Infection has been reported in patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial, including serious cases of pneumonia (2.6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Anemia, lymphopenia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported in patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial, including decreases from baseline in hemoglobin (52%; grade 3, 3.7%), lymphocytes (29%; grade 3 or 4, 4.6%), leukocytes (20%; grade 3, 1.1%), neutrophils (16%), and platelets (16%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Electrolyte abnormalities including hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, and hypophosphatemia have been reported in patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial including decreases from baseline in potassium (51%; grade 3 or 4, 18%), magnesium (41%), calcium (36%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6%), sodium (33%; grade 3, 5%), and phosphate (35%; grade 3 or 4, 13%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia has been reported in patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial including 45% of patients who experienced a decrease from baseline in glucose (grade 3, 0.5%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Hypoalbuminemia has been reported in patients treated with sevabertinib, with decreases from baseline in albumin levels reported in 33% of patients in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial (grade 3, 1.1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Mild hypertriglyceridemia including grade 1 or 2 increases from baseline in serum triglyceride levels occurred in 33% of patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    left ventricular dysfunction
    General Information
    Sevabertinib can cause severe left ventricular dysfunction. A decrease in the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) has occurred with anti-HER2 therapies, including sevabertinib. Treatment with sevabertinib has not been studied in patients with a history of clinically significant cardiac disease or LVEF less than 50% prior to initiation of treatment. In the pooled safety population, a decrease in LVEF occurred in one patient (grade 3, 0.3%) treated with sevabertinib; the LVEF recovered after permanent discontinuation of therapy. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if LV dysfunction occurs, depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      left ventricular dysfunction
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain was reported in 18% of patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acute kidney injury
    General Information
    Acute kidney injury has been reported in patients treated with sevabertinib in 3 cohorts of a single-arm, open-label clinical trial including increases in serum creatinine in 33% of patients (grade 3, 1.1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acute kidney injury
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Sevabertinib is a reversible HER2 inhibitor approved for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors have HER2 tyrosine kinase domain (TKD) activating mutations. Diarrhea occurs commonly; patients should increase fluid and electrolyte intake as well as initiating antidiarrheal therapy at the first sign of diarrhea or increased frequency of bowel movements.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Sevabertinib is a reversible inhibitor of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2); it also exhibits activity against epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). In vitro, sevabertinib inhibited HER2 phosphorylation as well as downstream signaling in cancer cells with HER2 alterations and proliferation of cancer cells overexpressing wild-type HER2 or harboring HER2 mutations. In vivo, sevabertinib demonstrated antitumor activity in subcutaneous mouse xenograft models derived from human NSCLC tumors harboring an activating HER2 exon 20 mutation.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The mean Cmax of sevabertinib at steady-state is 902 ng/mL (CV, 45%) and the total systemic exposure (AUC) is 6,640 ng x hour/mL (CV, 50%); the median Tmax is approximately 2 hours (range, 0.5 to 8.2 hours) after a single dose. The Cmax and AUC of sevabertinib increase in a dose-proportional manner across a dose range of 10 mg to 80 mg (0.25 to 2 times the approved recommended dose). Sevabertinib accumulation is approximately 1.7-fold for AUC and 1.3-fold for Cmax at the approved recommended dosage. Steady-state is achieved within 3 days.
A high-fat meal (1000 calories, 50% fat) decreases the Cmax of sevabertinib by 56% and AUC by 28% in healthy subjects. A low-fat meal (400 calories, 25% fat) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sevabertinib pharmacokinetics.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild hepatic impairment (AST greater than the upper limit of normal [ULN]; or total bilirubin greater than 1 to 1.5 times ULN with any AST) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sevabertinib. The effect of moderate or severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 1.5 times ULN with any AST) on the pharmacokinetics of sevabertinib is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sevabertinib. The effect of severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (eGFR less than 30 mL/min) on the pharmacokinetics of sevabertinib is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (18 to 91 years) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sevabertinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sevabertinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (White, Asian, Black/African American) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sevabertinib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (29 to 155 kg) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sevabertinib.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Smoking Status
Smoking status does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sevabertinib.
  Text
  Sevabertinib is administered orally. It is 95% protein bound, with a blood-to-plasma concentration ratio of 0.6. The apparent volume of distribution of sevabertinib is 28 liters (CV, 42%). The effective half-life of sevabertinib at steady-state is approximately 8 hours (CV, 33%) with an apparent clearance of 3.1 liters/hour (CV, 38%). Sevabertinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A (major), CYP1A1 (minor), and glucuronidation (minor). After a single oral dose of radiolabeled sevabertinib to healthy subjects, approximately 84% of the dose was recovered in feces (14% unchanged) and approximately 10% in urine (1.3% unchanged).
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A1, CYP2C8, CYP3A4, P-gp, BCRP, MATE1, MATE2-K
In vivo, sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and a minor CYP1A1 substrate. In vivo, it inhibits P-gp, BCRP, and is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In vitro, sevabertinib inhibits CYP1A1, CYP2C8, MATE1, and MATE2-K.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Take with food.
Swallow tablets whole; do not cut, crush, or chew.
If a dose is missed, give it as soon as possible prior to the next scheduled dose; do not take 2 doses at the same time.
If a dose is vomited, do not give an additional dose; resume dosing at the next scheduled time.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    20 mg PO twice daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    20 mg PO twice daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
Treatment-Related Increases in ALT/AST (without increased total bilirubin)
Grade 2 or higher, without increased bilirubin: Hold sevabertinib therapy. Upon recovery to grade 1 or less (or baseline), resume treatment at the next lower dose level.
Treatment-Related Hyperbilirubinemia
Grade 3: Hold sevabertinib therapy. Upon recovery to grade 1 or less (or baseline), resume treatment at the next lower dose level.
Grade 4: Permanently discontinue sevabertinib therapy.
Total bilirubin 2 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) with ALT/AST 3 times ULN: Permanently discontinue sevabertinib therapy.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
