=== Clofarabine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2875)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Clofarabine is a purine nucleoside antimetabolite that inhibits DNA synthesis.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 18 to 21 years: 52 mg/m2 IV daily for 5 days.Older than 21 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, candidiasis, colitis, infection, influenza, sinusitis, bowel necrosis, enterocolitis, gi perforation, pancreatitis, edema, hypertension, hypotension, pericardial effusion, sinus tachycardia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (sos), veno-occlusive disease (vod), arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, myalgia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Clofarabine should be used cautiously in patients who have had previous myelosuppressive therapy such as chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Severe bone marrow suppression, including anemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia, is a relative contraindication to clofarabine depending upon the disease... Emetic risk: Moderate Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1

Brand Names
  - Clolar

Dosage Forms
  - Clofarabine 1mg/1mL Solution for injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of relapsed or refractory ALL after at least 2 prior regimens
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults 21 years and younger, Adolescents, and Children
          Dosage Description
          52 mg/m2 IV over 2 hours once daily for 5 consecutive days repeated every 2 to 6 weeks depending on recovery or return to baseline organ function. The next cycle of therapy may be started if the absolute neutrophil count is at least 0.75 X 109 cells/L but no sooner than 14 days from day 1 of the previous cycle. Re-calculate body surface area for dosing using actual height and weight prior to each cycle. Discontinue therapy if hypotension develops in the 5-day treatment period or if early signs of a cytokine release syndrome occur. Supportive care, such as IV fluids, antihyperuricemic treatment, and urine alkalinization is recommended during the 5-day treatment period. Consider the use of prophylactic antiemetics to prevent nausea/vomiting and steroids (e.g., hydrocortisone 100 mg/m2 on days 1, 2, and 3) to prevent cytokine release syndrome. The complete remission (CR) rate was 20% (CR, n = 7; CR without platelet recovery (CRp), n = 5) and the partial remission rate was 10% (n = 6) in 61 pediatric patients with refractory or relapsed ALL who received 5 days of clofarabine every 2 to 6 weeks (median time between cycles, 28 days; range, 12 to 55 days) for up to 12 cycles (median of 2 cycles; range, 1 to 11 cycles) in a multicenter, phase 2 study. The median duration of remission was 9.7 weeks; the overall survival time for all patients in this study was 13 weeks (range, 1 to 89 weeks). In this study, the median age was 12 years (1 to 20 years) and the median number of prior regimens was 3 (range, 2 to 6 regimens). Of the 9 patients who underwent a hematopoietic stem-cell transplant, 4 patients achieved a CR (CR, n = 2; CRp, n = 2) and 3 patients had a PR. The median duration of CR, including patients who received transplantation, was 47.9 weeks (range, 4.3 to more than 107.7 weeks).
      Heading
      for the treatment of relapsed or refractory ALL, in combination with etoposide and cyclophosphamide†
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults 21 years or younger, Adolescents, and Children
          Dosage Description
          40 mg/m2 daily IV over 2 hours on days 1 to 5 in combination with etoposide 150 mg/m2 daily IV over 2 hours on days 1 to 5 and cyclophosphamide 400 mg/m2 daily IV over 1 hour on days 1 to 5 were given in a clinical study. Clofarabine was administered before cyclophosphamide and etoposide. In patients with a blast count greater than 30 X 109 cells/L, prophylactic steroids were given. Alternately, etoposide 100 mg/m2 daily IV over 2 hours on days 1 to 5 in combination with cyclophosphamide 440 mg/m2 daily IV over 1 hour on days 1 to 5, and clofarabine 40 mg/m2 daily IV over 2 hours on days 1 to 5 has been studied. Each drug was given daily for 4 days if administered as consolidation treatment.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Clofarabine should be used cautiously in patients who have had previous myelosuppressive therapy such as chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Severe bone marrow suppression, including anemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia, is a relative contraindication to clofarabine depending upon the disease being treated. Patients with aggressive leukemia may require treatment with clofarabine despite severe bone marrow suppression. Therefore, this drug should be used only by clinicians experienced in the use of cancer or immune suppression therapy. Patients with preexisting bone marrow suppression due to treatment should be allowed to recover their blood cell counts prior to clofarabine administration. The hematological status (hemoglobin, WBC, and platelet counts) of the patient should be monitored closely during clofarabine therapy. Prolonged or persistent bone marrow suppression should be assessed to differentiate between residual bone marrow disease, drug-induced hypoplasia, or autoimmune complications. Patients with an active infection should be treated prior to receiving clofarabine whenever possible. Patients with a history of varicella zoster, other herpes infection (e.g., herpes simplex), or other viral infection are at risk for reactivation of the infection when treated with chemotherapy. Because of the pre-existing immunocompromised condition of these patients and prolonged neutropenia that may result from clofarabine administration, patients are at increased risk for severe opportunistic infections. Prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) should be considered in high-risk patients who are heavily pre-treated or require concurrent corticosteroids; previously untreated patients, receiving single-agent clofarabine are probably not candidates for PCP prophylaxis.
 
Myelosuppressive effects of clofarabine can increase the risk of infection or bleeding; therefore, dental work should be delayed until blood counts have returned to normal. Patients, especially those with dental disease, should be instructed in proper oral hygiene, including caution in use of regular toothbrushes, dental floss, and toothpicks.
 
Administration of clofarabine results in a rapid reduction in peripheral leukemia cells. As a result, patients undergoing clofarabine treatment should be evaluated and monitored for signs and symptoms of tumor lysis syndrome, as well as signs of cytokine release (e.g., tachypnea, tachycardia, hypotension, pulmonary edema) that could develop into systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS)/capillary leak syndrome, and organ dysfunction. Continuous IV fluids should be administered during clofarabine administration. Allopurinol should be given if hyperuricemia is expected. Clofarabine should be immediately discontinued in the event of clinically significant signs or symptoms of SIRS or capillary leak syndrome, either of which can be fatal, and use of steroids, diuretics, and albumin considered. Clofarabine may be reinstituted when the patient is stable, generally at a lower dose.
 
Intramuscular injections should not be administered to patients with platelet counts = 2 weeks. The administration of live vaccines to immunocompromised patients should be avoided. Those undergoing chemotherapy should not be exposed to others who have recently received the oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV). Measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccination is not contraindicated for the close contacts, including health care professionals, of immunocompromised patients. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination. When exposed to a vaccine-preventable disease such as measles, severely immunocompromised children should be considered susceptible regardless of their vaccination history.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Clofarabine may cause fetal harm when used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Females of reproductive potential should avoid becoming pregnant during clofarabine therapy. Women who become pregnant while receiving clofarabine should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Although there are no well controlled studies in pregnant women who received clofarabine, teratogenic effects including developmental toxicity (e.g., reduced fetal body weight, increased post-implantation loss) and gross external malformations, soft tissue malformations, and skeletal and retarded ossifications have been observed in rats and rabbits at doses approximately 0.2 to 1 times the maximum recommended human dose of 52 mg/m2 based on body surface area.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, infertility, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during clofarabine therapy. Females of reproductive potential should receive pregnancy testing prior to starting clofarabine. These patients should use effective contraception during clofarabine treatment and for 6 months after the last dose. Women who become pregnant while receiving clofarabine should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Due to a risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, men with female partners should also use effective contraception during clofarabine treatment and for 3 months after the last dose. The risk of infertility in humans who have received clofarabine therapy is unknown. However, seminiferous tubule and testicular degeneration and atrophy have been reported with clofarabine use in animal studies in mice, rats, and dogs and ovarian atrophy or degeneration and uterine mucosal apoptosis have occurred with high doses of clofarabine in female mice.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use clofarabine with caution in patients with renal impairment, including renal failure. A dose reduction is necessary in patients with a creatinine clearance between 30 to 60 mL/min. Minimize the concomitant use of other agents known to cause renal toxicity and monitor renal function during the 5-day treatment period. Withhold therapy in patients who develop renal impairment during clofarabine therapy; restart at a reduced dose when the patient is stable and organ function has returned to baseline. Patients with infection, sepsis, or tumor lysis syndrome may be at increased risk of developing renal toxicity.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    It is not known if clofarabine is secreted in human milk or if it has effects on the breast-fed child or on milk production. Due to the risk of serious adverse reactions in a nursing child (e.g., genotoxicity), women should discontinue breast-feeding during clofarabine therapy and for 2 weeks after the last dose.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Clofarabine may cause fetal harm when used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Females of reproductive potential should avoid becoming pregnant during clofarabine therapy. Women who become pregnant while receiving clofarabine should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Although there are no well controlled studies in pregnant women who received clofarabine, teratogenic effects including developmental toxicity (e.g., reduced fetal body weight, increased post-implantation loss) and gross external malformations, soft tissue malformations, and skeletal and retarded ossifications have been observed in rats and rabbits at doses approximately 0.2 to 1 times the maximum recommended human dose of 52 mg/m2 based on body surface area.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during clofarabine therapy. Females of reproductive potential should receive pregnancy testing prior to starting clofarabine. These patients should use effective contraception during clofarabine treatment and for 6 months after the last dose. Women who become pregnant while receiving clofarabine should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Due to a risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, men with female partners should also use effective contraception during clofarabine treatment and for 3 months after the last dose. The risk of infertility in humans who have received clofarabine therapy is unknown. However, seminiferous tubule and testicular degeneration and atrophy have been reported with clofarabine use in animal studies in mice, rats, and dogs and ovarian atrophy or degeneration and uterine mucosal apoptosis have occurred with high doses of clofarabine in female mice.

Interactions
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and zidovudine, ZDV may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are substrates of OAT1 and OAT3. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 and OAT3 substrates.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and acyclovir may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are substrates of OAT1 and OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 and OCT1 substrates.
Adefovir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and adefovir may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are substrates of OAT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 substrates.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
Amikacin: (Major) Avoid the concurrent and/or sequential use of amikacin and other nephrotoxic drugs such as clofarabine; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and valsartan, an inhibitor of OAT protein (OATP), may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving valsartan.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and valsartan, an inhibitor of OAT protein (OATP), may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving valsartan.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Beclomethasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Betamethasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Budesonide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
Cefadroxil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and cefadroxil, an inhibitor of OAT1 and OAT3, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 and OAT3 inhibitors.
ceFAZolin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and cefazolin, an inhibitor of OAT1 and OAT3, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 and OAT3 inhibitors.
Celecoxib: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciclesonide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of cidofovir and clofarabine is contraindicated due to the potential for additive nephrotoxicity. Discontinue clofarabine 7 days prior to starting cidofovir.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clofarabine and cimetidine resulted in decreased clofarabine renal excretion in a preclinical study in rats. Cimetidine is a substrate for OAT3 and OCT2. Monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT3 or OCT2 substrates or inhibitors.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and clindamycin may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
cloZAPine: (Major) It is unclear if concurrent use of other drugs known to cause neutropenia (e.g., antineoplastic agents) increases the risk or severity of clozapine-induced neutropenia. Because there is no strong rationale for avoiding clozapine in patients treated with these drugs, consider increased absolute neutrophil count (ANC) monitoring and consult the treating oncologist.
Corticosteroids: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Cortisone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and cyclosporine, an inhibitor of OAT protein (OATP), may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OATP inhibitors.
Cytarabine, ARA-C: (Minor) Clofarabine-cytarabine combination trials have not been completed to date; however, clofarabine is mechanistically like fludarabine. Thus, theoretically, a sequence-related interaction may occur during concurrent clofarabine and cytarabine treatment. The anti-cancer activity of cytarabine may be increased if clofarabine is given prior; while the activity of clofarabine may be decreased if cytarabine is given prior.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Deflazacort: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1 and OCT2, and desipramine, a substrate of OCT1 and an inhibitor of OCT2, may result in altered clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 and OCT2 substrates or inhibitors.
dexAMETHasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1, and quinidine, an inhibitor of OCT1, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 inhibitors.
Diclofenac: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Diflunisal: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Some antineoplastic agents have been reported to decrease the absorption of digoxin tablets due to their adverse effects on the GI mucosa; the effect on digoxin liquid is not known. The reduction in digoxin tablet absorption has resulted in plasma concentrations that are 50% of pretreatment levels and has been clinically significant in some patients. It is prudent to closely monitor patients for loss of clinical efficacy of digoxin while receiving antineoplastic therapy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1, and disopyramide, an inhibitor of OCT1, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 inhibitors.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and memantine may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT2. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT2 substrates.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of islatravir and clofarabine. Concurrent use may decrease islatravir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; clofarabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, taking these drugs together may alter clofarabine concentrations; clofarabine and tenofovir are both substrates of OAT1 and OAT3.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, taking these drugs together may alter clofarabine concentrations; clofarabine and tenofovir are both substrates of OAT1 and OAT3.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, taking these drugs together may alter clofarabine concentrations; clofarabine and tenofovir are both substrates of OAT1 and OAT3.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, taking these drugs together may alter clofarabine concentrations; clofarabine and tenofovir are both substrates of OAT1 and OAT3.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, taking these drugs together may alter clofarabine concentrations; clofarabine and tenofovir are both substrates of OAT1 and OAT3.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, taking these drugs together may alter clofarabine concentrations; clofarabine and tenofovir are both substrates of OAT1 and OAT3.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
Etodolac: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Febuxostat: (Major) Coadministration of febuxostat and cytotoxic antineoplastic agents has not been studied. After antineoplastic therapy, tumor cell breakdown may greatly increase the rate of purine metabolism to uric acid. Febuxostat inhibits uric acid formation, but does not affect xanthine and hypoxanthine formation. An increased renal load of these two uric acid precursors can occur and result in xanthine nephropathy and calculi.
Fenofibrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenofibric Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenoprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Filgrastim, G-CSF: (Major) Filgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and, because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, filgrastim is contraindicated for use during the 24 hours before or after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Fludrocortisone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Flunisolide: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Fluticasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Foscarnet: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and foscarnet; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity.
Ganciclovir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and ganciclovir may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
Gemfibrozil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and gemfibrozil, an inhibitor of OAT protein (OATP), may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OATP inhibitors.
Gentamicin: (Major) Avoid the concurrent and/or sequential use of gentamicin and other nephrotoxic drugs such as clofarabine; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Hydrocortisone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Indomethacin: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ketoprofen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Ketorolac: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and zidovudine, ZDV may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are substrates of OAT1 and OAT3. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 and OAT3 substrates.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, taking these drugs together may alter clofarabine concentrations; clofarabine and tenofovir are both substrates of OAT1 and OAT3.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1, and ritonavir, an inhibitor of OCT1, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 inhibitors.
Mannitol: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and mannitol; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Meloxicam: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Memantine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and memantine may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT2. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT2 substrates.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
Methotrexate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and methotrexate due to the risk of additive hepatotoxicity. Coadministration may also increase the risk of additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, taking these drugs together may alter clofarabine concentrations; clofarabine and methotrexate are both substrates of OAT1 and OAT3.
methylPREDNISolone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1, and midazolam, an inhibitor of OCT1, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 inhibitors.
Mometasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Nabumetone: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Naproxen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Neomycin: (Major) Avoid the concurrent and/or sequential use of neomycin and other nephrotoxic drugs such as clofarabine; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1, and ritonavir, an inhibitor of OCT1, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 inhibitors.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Oxaprozin: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Pegfilgrastim: (Major) Pegfilgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, pegfilgrastim should not be given 14 days before or for 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Pentamidine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and pentamidine if possible; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor patients closely for signs of renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Pentoxifylline: (Minor) Clofarabine is mechanistically similar to fludarabine. Therefore, documented drug-drug interactions with fludarabine may potentially occur with clofarabine. These interactions are theoretic. While combination regimens containing clofarabine and pentoxifylline have not been studied, additive cytotoxic effects of fludarabine may be seen when the drug is given in combination with pentoxifylline.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1 and OCT2, and phenoxybenzamine, an inhibitor of OCT1 and OCT2, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 and OCT2 inhibitors.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and metformin may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 substrates.
Piroxicam: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and pitavastatin, a substrate of OAT protein (OATP), may result in altered clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OATP substrates.
Pravastatin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and pravastatin, a substrate of OAT protein (OATP), may result in altered clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OATP substrates.
prednisoLONE: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
predniSONE: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Probenecid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and probenecid, an inhibitor of OAT1 and OAT3, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 and OAT3 inhibitors.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and probenecid, an inhibitor of OAT1 and OAT3, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 and OAT3 inhibitors.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1, and quinidine, an inhibitor of OCT1, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 inhibitors.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1 and OCT2, and quinine, an inhibitor of OCT1 and OCT2, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 and OCT2 inhibitors.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and repaglinide, a substrate of OAT protein (OATP), may result in altered clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OATP substrates.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1, and ritonavir, an inhibitor of OCT1, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 inhibitors.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and valsartan, an inhibitor of OAT protein (OATP), may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving valsartan.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Streptomycin: (Major) Avoid the concurrent and/or sequential use of streptomycin and other nephrotoxic drugs such as clofarabine; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity.
Streptozocin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and streptozocin due to the risk of additive hepatotoxicity. Coadministration may also increase the risk of additive nephrotoxicity.
Sulindac: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and probenecid, an inhibitor of OAT1 and OAT3, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 and OAT3 inhibitors.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Tbo-Filgrastim: (Major) Filgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and, because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, filgrastim is contraindicated for use during the 24 hours before or after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, taking these drugs together may alter clofarabine concentrations; clofarabine and tenofovir are both substrates of OAT1 and OAT3.
Teriflunomide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and teriflunomide, an inhibitor of OAT protein (OATP), may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OATP inhibitors.
Tobramycin: (Major) Avoid the concurrent and/or sequential use of tobramycin and other nephrotoxic drugs such as clofarabine; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. If the use of tobramycin and clofarabine is required, monitor tobramycin serum concentrations and renal function.
Tolmetin: (Major) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of clofarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant NSAIDs. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1, and verapamil, an inhibitor of OCT1, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 inhibitors.
Triamcinolone: (Minor) Because systemically administered corticosteroids exhibit immunosuppressive effects when given in high doses and/or for extended periods, additive effects may be seen with other immunosuppressives or antineoplastic agents.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and valsartan, an inhibitor of OAT protein (OATP), may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving valsartan.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and valsartan, an inhibitor of OAT protein (OATP), may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving valsartan.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OCT1, and verapamil, an inhibitor of OCT1, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT1 inhibitors.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and clofarabine may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and zidovudine, ZDV may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are substrates of OAT1 and OAT3. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 and OAT3 substrates.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Using currently recommended doses of clofarabine, bone marrow suppression is a commonly reported adverse event. Myelosuppression may be severe, cumulative, and affect multiple cell lines. Hematologic adverse reactions, including neutropenia (10%), febrile neutropenia (57%), and transfusion reaction (10%), were reported in acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) patients treated with clofarabine. During clinical trials, the absolute neutrophil count decreased to = 10% of patients include the following: pruritus (47%), epistaxis (31%), hypotension (29%), anxiety (22%), cough (19%), flushing (18%), hematuria (16%), respiratory distress (14%), palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) 13%, dyspnea (13%), depression (11%), irritability (11%), and pleural effusions (10%).
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Myelosuppression has been reported with clofarabine therapy. Monitor complete blood counts prior to each cycle and as necessary during clofarabine therapy. Do not administer the next cycle of therapy sooner than 14 days from the start of the last cycle and until the patient’s absolute neutrophil count is 0.75 X 109 cells/L or greater. A dose reduction is required in patients who experience grade 4 neutropenia lasting 4 or more weeks. In a pooled analysis of clinical trials, hematologic adverse events reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (n = 45) who received IV clofarabine include neutropenia (grade 3 or higher, 64%), anemia (83%; grade 3 or higher, 75%), leukopenia (grade 3 or higher, 88%), lymphopenia (grade 3 or higher, 82%), thrombocytopenia (81%; grade 3 or higher, 80%), and febrile neutropenia (55%; grade 3 or higher, 54%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    candidiasis, colitis, infection, influenza, sinusitis
    General Information
    Infection has been reported in 83% of patients who received clofarabine in a clinical trial. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infection. Discontinue therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant infection; treat infection promptly. Clofarabine may be restarted at the full dose once the infection is controlled. In a pooled analysis of clinical trials, infection was reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL; n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (AML; n = 45) who received IV clofarabine. Infections included bacteremia (grade 3, 9%), candidiasis (97%; grade 3, 1%), catheter-related infection (12%; grade 3, 11%), cellulitis (8%; grade 3, 6%), clostridium colitis (7%; grade 3, 5%), herpes simplex virus (9.6%; grade 3, 5%), herpes zoster infection (7%; grade 3, 5%), oral candidiasis (11%; grade 3, 2%), pneumonia (10%; grade 3 or higher, 7%), sepsis including septic shock (grade 3 or higher, 17%), Staphylococcal bacteremia (6%; grade 3 or higher, 5%), Staphylococcal sepsis (grade 3 or higher, 5%), and upper respiratory tract infection (all grade, 5%; grade 3, 1%). Additionally, bacterial infection, enterococcal bacteremia, Escherichia bacteremia, Escherichia sepsis, fungal infection, fungal sepsis, gastroenteritis adenovirus, influenza, parainfluenza virus infection, fungal pneumonia, atypical pneumonia, respiratory Syncytial virus infection, sinusitis, and staphylococcal infection occurred in less than 5% of pediatric ALL or AML patients in this pooled analysis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      candidiasis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bullous rash, erythema, flushing, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), petechiae, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis
    General Information
    Serious rash (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN)) was reported in post-marketing surveillance of clofarabine. Discontinue therapy in patients who develop an exfoliative or bullous rash, or if SJS or TEN is suspected. In a pooled analysis of clinical trials, dermatologic adverse events reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL; n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (AML; n = 45) who received IV clofarabine include pruritus (all grade, 43%; grade 3, 1%), rash (unspecified) (38%; grade 3, 7%), petechiae (26%; grade 3, 6%), palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) (16%; grade 3, 7%), flushing (19%), erythema (11%), and pruritic rash (8%). Additionally, hypersensitivity reactions occurred in less than 5% of patients in this analysis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      petechiae
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, bowel necrosis, diarrhea, enterocolitis, GI perforation, nausea, pancreatitis, stomatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    Enterocolitis (e.g., neutropenic and clostridium difficile colitis) has occurred with clofarabine therapy, most often within 30 days of therapy and when clofarabine was used as part of combination chemotherapy. Some cases were fatal or serious, resulting in bowel necrosis, GI perforation or hemorrhage, or complications from sepsis. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of enterocolitis; manage promptly. In a pooled analysis of clinical trials, gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL; n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (AML; n = 45) who received IV clofarabine include abdominal pain (35%; grade 3, 7%), upper abdominal pain (8%; grade 3, 1%), diarrhea (56%; grade 3, 12%), anorexia (30%; grade 3 or higher, 12%), mucosal inflammation (14%; grade 3, 2%), gingival or mouth bleeding (17%; grade 3, 7%; grade 4, 1%), nausea (73%; grade 3 or higher, 15%), mucosal petechiae (5%; grade 3, 4%), proctalgia (8%; grade 3 or higher, 2%), stomatitis (7%; grade 3, 1%), and vomiting (78%; grade 3 or higher, 9%). Additionally, cecitis and pancreatitis occurred in less than 5% of pediatric ALL or AML patients in this pooled analysis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bowel necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      enterocolitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      GI perforation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hyperuricemia, tumor lysis syndrome (TLS)
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis, grade 3 tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) was reported in 6% of pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (n = 45) who received IV clofarabine in clinical trials. Institute measures to prevent TLS/hyperuricemia (e.g., IV fluids, antihyperuricemic treatment, and urine alkalinization) for 5 days of therapy. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of TLS.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tumor lysis syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, hypertension, hypotension, pericardial effusion, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Hypotension and hypertension have been reported with clofarabine therapy. Monitor cardiac function during clofarabine therapy; monitor blood pressure in patients taking medications to affect blood pressure. Discontinue clofarabine in patients who develop hypotension during the 5 days of therapy. In a pooled analysis of clinical trials, cardiovascular adverse events reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (n = 45) who received IV clofarabine include pericardial effusion (8%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), sinus tachycardia (35%; grade 3 or higher, 5%), edema (12%; grade 3 or higher, 2%), hypertension (13%; grade 3 or higher, 5%), and hypotension (29%; grade 3 or higher, 19%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pericardial effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hematuria, renal failure (unspecified)
    General Information
    Nephrotoxicity has been reported with clofarabine therapy. Monitor renal function during the 5-day treatment period. Withhold clofarabine in patients who develop severe elevated serum creatinine (SCr) levels during clofarabine therapy; restart at a reduced dose when the patient is stable and organ function has returned to baseline. In a pooled analysis of clinical trials, renal and urinary disorders reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (n = 45) who received IV clofarabine include hematuria (all grade, 13%; grade 3, 2%), elevated SCr level (all grade, 50%; grade 3 or higher, 8%), and acute renal failure (unspecified) (grade 3 and 4, 5%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS), veno-occlusive disease (VOD)
    General Information
    Severe hepatotoxicity including hepatitis, hepatic failure, and sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS), previously termed veno-occlusive disease (VOD) has been reported with clofarabine therapy; some cases were fatal. Monitor hepatic function (e.g., liver function tests) and for signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity and SOS. Discontinue clofarabine in patients who develop severe hepatotoxicity or SOS. In patients who experience severe elevated bilirubin levels during therapy, clofarabine may be restarted at a reduced dose when the patient is stable and organ function has returned to baseline. Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased AST (74%; grade 3 or higher, 36%) and ALT (81%; grade 3 or higher, 43%) levels, hyperbilirubinemia (45%; grade 3 or higher, 13%), and jaundice (8%; grade 3, 2%) were reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (n = 45) who received IV clofarabine in a pooled analysis of clinical trials. Eight patients with grade 3 or 4 elevated bilirubin levels at last measurement died as a result of sepsis and/or multiorgan failure. Additionally, SOS related to treatment was reported in 2% of patients who received clofarabine monotherapy. Transaminase level elevations usually occurred within 10 days after starting therapy and returned to grade 2 or less within 15 days.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      veno-occlusive disease
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinusoidal obstruction syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, myalgia
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of clinical trials, musculoskeletal adverse events reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (n = 45) who received IV clofarabine include pain (15%; grade 3 or higher, 7%), extremity pain (30%; grade 3, 5%), myalgia (14%), back pain (10%; grade 3, 3%), bone pain (10%; grade 3, 3%), and arthralgia (9%; grade 3, 3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    drowsiness, headache, lethargy
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of clinical trials, nervous system adverse events reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (n = 45) who received IV clofarabine include headache (43%; grade 3, 8%), lethargy (10%; grade 3, 1%), and somnolence/drowsiness (10%; grade 3, 1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, irritability
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of clinical trials, psychiatric adverse events reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL; n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (AML; n = 45) who received IV clofarabine include anxiety (21%; grade 3, 2%), agitation (5%; grade 3, 1%), and irritability (10%; grade 3, 1%). Additionally, mental status changes occurred in less than 5% of pediatric ALL or AML patients in this pooled analysis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dyspnea, pleural effusion, pulmonary edema, tachypnea
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis of clinical trials, respiratory adverse events reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL; n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (AML; n = 45) who received IV clofarabine include dyspnea (13%; grade 3 or higher, 7%), pleural effusion (12%; grade 3 or higher, 6%), respiratory distress (10%; grade 3 or higher, 9%), and tachypnea (9%; grade 3 or higher, 5%). Additionally, pulmonary edema occurred in less than 5% of pediatric ALL or AML patients in this pooled analysis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tachypnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    capillary leak syndrome
    General Information
    A cytokine release syndrome, sometimes progressing to systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) with capillary leak syndrome, has been reported with clofarabine use; some cases were fatal. Symptoms of these syndromes include respiratory distress, tachycardia, tachypnea, hypotension, pleural effusion, pericardial effusion, pulmonary edema, and/or multi-organ failure. The use of prophylactic steroids (e.g., hydrocortisone 100 mg/m2 on days 1, 2, and 3) may help prevent SIRS/capillary leak syndrome. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of cytokine release as early intervention may be beneficial. Discontinue therapy if a cytokine release syndrome occurs and provide supportive care (e.g., diuretics, albumin). Clofarabine therapy may be restarted at a reduced dose once the patient is stabilized and organ function normalizes. In a pooled analysis, capillary leak syndrome (4%) and SIRS (2%) were reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (n = 45) who received IV clofarabine in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      capillary leak syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chills, fever
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis, fever (all grade, 39%; grade 3, 14%) and chills (all grade, 34%; grade 3, 3%) were reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (n = 45) who received IV clofarabine in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis, asthenia (10%; grade 3 or higher, 2%) and fatigue (34%; grade 3 or higher, 5%) were reported in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (n = 45) who received IV clofarabine in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyponatremia
    General Information
    Hyponatremia was reported in post-marketing surveillance of clofarabine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    bleeding, epistaxis, GI bleeding, intracranial bleeding
    General Information
    Bleeding (e.g., intracranial bleeding, gastrointestinal bleeding, pulmonary hemorrhage) has been reported with clofarabine therapy. Most cases of bleeding were associated with thrombocytopenia. Monitor complete blood counts including platelets and coagulation parameters during clofarabine therapy. In a pooled analysis of clinical trials, epistaxis was reported in 27% of pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL; n = 70) or acute myelogenous leukemia (AML; n = 45) who received IV clofarabine; grade 3 epistaxis occurred in 13% of patients. GI bleeding was reported in post-marketing surveillance of clofarabine; some cases were fatal.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Clofarabine is a purine nucleoside antimetabolite that inhibits DNA synthesis. It is indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients aged 1 to 21 years with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia after at least 2 prior regimens. Severe myelosuppression and cytokine release syndrome progressing to systemic inflammatory response syndrome with capillary leak syndrome and organ impairment have been reported.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Clofarabine is metabolized intracellularly to the inactive 5'-monophosphate metabolite by deoxycytidine kinase and to the active 5'-triphosphate metabolite by mono- and di-phosphokinases. Clofarabine has high affinity for the activating phosphorylating enzyme, deoxycytidine kinase, equal to or greater than that of the natural substrate, deoxycytidine. Clofarabine inhibits DNA synthesis by decreasing cellular deoxynucleotide triphosphate pools through an inhibitor action on ribonucleotide reductase, and by terminating DNA chain elongation and inhibiting repair through incorporation into the DNA chain by competitive inhibition of DNA polymerases. The affinity of clofarabine triphosphate for these enzymes is similar to or greater than that of deoxyadenosine triphosphate. In preclinical models, clofarabine has demonstrated the ability to inhibit DNA repair by incorporation into the DNA chain during the repair process. Clofarabine 5'-triphosphate also disrupts the integrity of mitochondrial membrane, leading to the release of the pro-apoptotic mitochondrial proteins, cytochrome C and apoptosis-inducing factor, leading to programmed cell death. Clofarabine is cytotoxic to rapidly proliferating and quiescent cancer cell types in vitro.

Pharmacokinetics
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The clofarabine AUC was increased in patients with renal impairment in a population pharmacokinetic analysis of 3 pediatric and 2 adult studies. The average AUC values were increased by 60% and 140% in patients with a creatinine clearance (CrCl) of 60 to 90 mL/min (n = 47) and 30 to 59 mL/min (n = 30), respectively, compared with 66 patients who had normal renal function (defined as a CrCl > 90 mL/min).
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Following clofarabine 52 mg/m2 IV, the steady-state systemic clearance was 28.8 L/hour/m2, the steady-state volume of distribution was 172 L/m2 and the terminal half-life was 5.2 hours in pediatric patients (age range, 2 to 19 years) with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n = 40). In vitro studies indicate that minimal (0.2%) metabolism occurs in the liver; non-hepatic metabolism is unknown. Based on 24-hour urine collection studies, clofarabine is mostly eliminated unchanged in the urine (49% to 60%).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender does not appear to affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of clofarabine.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    At the recommended dose of clofarabine 52 mg/m2 IV, concentrations were similar over a wide range of body surface areas.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Acute Leukemias
There is no apparent difference in the pharmacokinetic parameters of clofarabine in patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia or acute myelogenous leukemia.
  Text
  Clofarabine is administered by intravenous (IV) infusion. It is 47% plasma protein bound, primarily to albumin.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, OCT2
Although no in vivo drug interaction studies have been performed, clofarabine undergoes limited hepatic metabolism and CYP450 interactions are not expected. Clofarabine appears to be a substrate of OAT1, OAT3, OCT1 based on an in vitro transporter study and an OCT2 inhibitor based on a preclinical study. Therefore, use caution and monitor for clofarabine toxicity in patients receiving concomitant OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, and OCT2 substrates or inhibitors.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.
Emetic Risk
Moderate
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
Recommended Prophylaxis
Provide supportive care, such as intravenous fluids, antihyperuricemic treatment, and alkalinize urine throughout the 5 days of clofarabine administration to reduce the effects of tumor lysis and other adverse reactions.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Dilution
Filter the clofarabine 1 mg/mL solution with a 0.2 micron syringe filter.
Withdraw the calculated dose and further dilute the filtered solution with 5% dextrose injection or 0.9% sodium chloride injection to a final concentration between 0.15 mg/mL and 0.4 mg/mL.
Storage following dilution: The diluted admixture may be stored at room temperature (15 to 30 degrees C) for up to 24 hours.
 
Intravenous infusion
Administer by IV infusion over 2 hours.
Do not give other medications through the same IV line.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    18 to 21 years: 52 mg/m2 IV daily for 5 days.Older than 21 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    52 mg/m2 IV daily for 5 days.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    52 mg/m2 IV daily for 5 days.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
There is no recommended dosing guidance from the manufacturer. Clofarabine use has not been evaluated in these patients.
Treatment-Related Hepatic Impairment
Grade 3 or higher increased bilirubin level: hold therapy; reduce the clofarabine dose by 25% when the patient is stable and bilirubin level returns to baseline.
  Renal Impairment
  Baseline Renal Impairment
Creatinine clearance (CrCl) of 30 to 60 mL/min: reduce the initial dose by 50% (i.e., 26 mg/m2 IV daily for 5 days)
CrCl less than 30 mL/min or patients on hemodialysis: no recommended dosing guidance from the manufacturer. Clofarabine use has not been evaluated in these patients.
Treatment-Related Renal Impairment
Grade 3 or higher increased serum creatinine (SCr) level: hold therapy; reduce the clofarabine dose by 25% when the patient is stable and SCr level returns to baseline.
