=== Rimegepant (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5200)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Rimegepant is an oral calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura and the preventative treatment of episodic migraine in adults.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 75 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, rash

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Avoid rimegepant use in individuals with hepatic failure or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C).

Brand Names
  - NURTEC ODT

Dosage Forms
  - Nurtec ODT 75mg Orally Disintegrating Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Guideline indications for initiating migraine prevention with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonists:
Consider as a first-line preventative treatment for episodic migraine with or without aura (4 to 14 monthly migraine days) based upon ICHD-3 with at least moderate disability, defined by Migraine Disability Assessment Score (MIDAS) of 11 or more or 6-item Headache Impact Test Score (HIT-6) more than 50.
 
Guideline indications for initiating acute treatment with CGRP receptor antagonists:
Contraindications to or inability to tolerate serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") or
Inadequate response to at least 2 oral triptans, as determined by either health care provider attestation or a validated acute treatment patient-reported outcome questionnaire (e.g., mTOQ, Migraine-ACT, PPMQ-R, FIS, PGIC).
 
 
Guideline criteria for continuation of acute treatment with CGRP receptor antagonists:
Continue coverage until at least 3 attacks are treated to assess efficacy and tolerability.
Base treatment continuation decisions on the average monthly headache frequency and clinical assessment of improvement by a health care provider or response to a validated acute treatment patient-reported outcome questionnaire.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        75 mg PO once as needed. Max: 75 mg/day. The safety of using more than 18 doses in a 30-day period has not been established. Coadministration of certain other drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Guidelines classify rimegepant as having established efficacy for the treatment of acute migraine.
    Heading
    For the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        75 mg PO every other day. Coadministration of certain other drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Guidelines classify rimegepant as having established efficacy for episodic migraine prophylaxis.
    Heading
    For episodic migraine prophylaxis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Avoid rimegepant use in individuals with hepatic failure or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C). Plasma concentrations of rimegepant were significantly higher in subjects with severe hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    dialysis, renal failure
    General Information
    Avoid use of rimegepant in individuals with end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute). Rimegepant has not been studied in individuals with end-stage renal disease (renal failure) or in individuals on dialysis.
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Monitor individuals with pre-existing hypertension for worsening of hypertension during treatment with rimegepant. Consider whether discontinuation of rimegepant is warranted if evaluation fails to establish an alternative etiology for worsening of hypertension or blood pressure is inadequately controlled.
    Headline
    Raynaud's phenomenon
    General Information
    Monitor individuals with a history of Raynaud phenomenon for, and inform them about the possibility of, worsening or recurrence of signs and symptoms during treatment with rimegepant. Discontinue rimegepant if signs or symptoms of Raynaud phenomenon develop, and evaluate individuals if symptoms do not resolve.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with rimegepant use during human pregnancy. Individuals with migraine may be at increased risk of preeclampsia and gestational hypertension during pregnancy. In animal studies, oral rimegepant administered during organogenesis caused developmental adverse effects in rats, including decreased fetal body weight and increased skeletal variations, at doses exceeding those used clinically. These effects were associated with maternal toxicity. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in individuals exposed to rimegepant during pregnancy. Encourage participation and advise individuals to get more information or enroll in the registry by visiting nurtecpregnancyregistry.com, emailing nurtecpregnancyregistry@ppd.com, or calling 1-877-366-0324.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use rimegepant with caution during breast-feeding. Low concentrations of rimegepant are excreted into human milk. In a study of 12 lactating adults between 2 weeks and 6 months postpartum who received a single oral dose of rimegepant 75 mg, a relative infant dose of less than 1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose and an average milk to plasma ratio of 0.2 were reported. There are no data on the effects of rimegepant on the breast-fed child or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with rimegepant use during human pregnancy. Individuals with migraine may be at increased risk of preeclampsia and gestational hypertension during pregnancy. In animal studies, oral rimegepant administered during organogenesis caused developmental adverse effects in rats, including decreased fetal body weight and increased skeletal variations, at doses exceeding those used clinically. These effects were associated with maternal toxicity. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in individuals exposed to rimegepant during pregnancy. Encourage participation and advise individuals to get more information or enroll in the registry by visiting nurtecpregnancyregistry.com, emailing nurtecpregnancyregistry@ppd.com, or calling 1-877-366-0324.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use rimegepant with caution during breast-feeding. Low concentrations of rimegepant are excreted into human milk. In a study of 12 lactating adults between 2 weeks and 6 months postpartum who received a single oral dose of rimegepant 75 mg, a relative infant dose of less than 1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose and an average milk to plasma ratio of 0.2 were reported. There are no data on the effects of rimegepant on the breast-fed child or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Abrocitinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with abrocitinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with adagrasib; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with amiodarone; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with amobarbital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and amobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with clarithromycin; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with apalutamide; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with aprepitant; fosaprepitant; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and aprepitant; fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Asciminib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with asciminib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with butalbital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with atazanavir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with atazanavir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with cobicistat; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with avacopan; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with azithromycin; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Belumosudil: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with belumosudil; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with berotralstat; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with bexarotene; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with lenacapavir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with bosentan; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with brigatinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and brigatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with butalbital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with butalbital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with butalbital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with butalbital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Cannabidiol: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with cannabidiol; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with capmatinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with carbamazepine; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Carvedilol: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with carvedilol; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and carvedilol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with cenobamate; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with ceritinib; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with chloramphenicol; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with ciprofloxacin; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with clarithromycin; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with cobicistat; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with conivaptan; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with crizotinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with cyclosporine; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with dabrafenib; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Danicopan: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with danicopan; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and danicopan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with daraxonrasib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and daraxonrasib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with daridorexant; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and daridorexant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with darunavir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with cobicistat; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with darunavir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with cobicistat; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with darunavir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with quinidine; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with diltiazem; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with dronedarone; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with duvelisib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with efavirenz; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with efavirenz; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with efavirenz; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with elacestrant; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and elacestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with elagolix; concurrent use may alter rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with elagolix; concurrent use may alter rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with ivacaftor; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with eliglustat; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and eliglustat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with cobicistat; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with cobicistat; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with enasidenib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and enasidenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with encorafenib; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with ensitrelvir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure and the risk for rimegepant-related adverse effects. Rimegepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with enzalutamide; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with erdafitinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with erythromycin; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with eslicarbazepine; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with etravirine; concurrent use may alter rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with fedratinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with fexinidazole; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Flibanserin: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with flibanserin; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and flibanserin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with fluconazole; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with fluvoxamine; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with fosamprenavir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with fosphenytoin; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with fostamatinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with gilteritinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with glecaprevir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and glecaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with pibrentasvir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and pibrentasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during rimegepant treatment due to the risk for increased rimegepant exposure and adverse reactions. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Ibrutinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with ibrutinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and ibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with idelalisib; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with imatinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with imlunestrant; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with isavuconazonium; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Istradefylline: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with istradefylline; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with itraconazole; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with itraconazole increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with ivacaftor; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with ketoconazole; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with clarithromycin; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with lapatinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and lapatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lasmiditan: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with lasmiditan; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with ledipasvir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and ledipasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with oral lefamulin; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. An interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with lenacapavir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with letermovir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Avoid concomitant use in patients also receiving cyclosporine because the magnitude of the interaction may be increased. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levacetylleucine: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with levacetylleucine; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with ketoconazole; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Lomitapide: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with lomitapide; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with lonafarnib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp; lonafarnib is a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with ritonavir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with lorlatinib; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with ivacaftor; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with lumacaftor; ivacaftor; concurrent use may alter rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with lumacaftor; ivacaftor; concurrent use may alter rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Maribavir: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with maribavir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with mavorixafor; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with mefloquine; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and mefloquine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with methohexital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and methohexital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with midostaurin; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a substrate of BCRP and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with mifepristone; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with mitapivat; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with mitotane; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Modafinil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with modafinil; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with nafcillin; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with nefazodone; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with nelfinavir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with neratinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and neratinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with netupitant; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with nilotinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with ritonavir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with nirogacestat; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with rifabutin; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with osimertinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and osimertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and rimegepant. Coadministration may have an unpredictable effect on the overall exposure of rimegepant resulting in decreased efficacy or increased toxicity. Rimegepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with pexidartinib; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with phenobarbital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with phenobarbital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with phenytoin; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with pirtobrutinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and pirtobrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with posaconazole; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with pretomanid; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with primaquine; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and primaquine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with primidone; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Propafenone: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with propafenone; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and propafenone is a P-gp inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with quinidine; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with quinine; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and quinine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with ranolazine; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and ranolazine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with relacorilant; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with remibrutinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with repotrectinib; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with ribociclib; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with ribociclib; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with rifabutin; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with rifampin; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with rifampin decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with rifapentine; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with ritlecitinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with ritonavir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Rolapitant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with rolapitant; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and rolapitant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with saquinavir; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Sarecycline: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with sarecycline; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and sarecycline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with secobarbital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and secobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with selpercatinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and selpercatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with sevabertinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with taurursodiol; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with velpatasvir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with velpatasvir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor. (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with voxilaprevir; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and voxilaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with sorafenib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and sorafenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with sotorasib; concurrent use may alter rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy or increased toxicity. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Sparsentan: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with sparsentan; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with St. John's Wort; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Stiripentol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with stiripentol; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and stiripentol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with temsirolimus; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tepotinib: (Moderate) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with tepotinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with ivacaftor; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tolvaptan: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with tolvaptan; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and tolvaptan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with verapamil; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Trofinetide: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with trofinetide; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with tucatinib; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with vemurafenib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and vemurafenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with venetoclax; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and venetoclax is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with vepdegestrant; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with verapamil; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Vimseltinib: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with vimseltinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and vimseltinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with voclosporin; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with clarithromycin; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with voriconazole; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with voxelotor; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with xanomeline; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Zonisamide: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with zonisamide; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and zonisamide is a P-gp inhibitor.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, dyspepsia, nausea
    General Information
    In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial assessing the safety of rimegepant for acute migraine treatment (n = 682), nausea occurred in 2% of subjects who received rimegepant compared to 0.4% of subjects who received placebo. In a second randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial assessing the safety of rimegepant for episodic migraine prophylaxis (n = 370), nausea occurred in 2.7% of subjects who received rimegepant compared to 0.8% of subjects who received placebo; abdominal pain/dyspepsia occurred in 2.4% of subjects who received rimegepant compared to 0.8% of subjects who received placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, rash
    General Information
    Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions, have occurred in individuals treated with rimegepant. Dyspnea and severe rash occurred in less than 1% of subjects during clinical trials. Hypersensitivity reactions can occur days after rimegepant administration, and delayed serious hypersensitivity has occurred. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, discontinue rimegepant and institute appropriate therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Development of hypertension and worsening of preexisting hypertension have been reported with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) antagonists, including rimegepant, during postmarketing surveillance. Some subjects who developed new-onset hypertension had risk factors for hypertension. There were cases requiring initiation of pharmacological treatment for hypertension or hospitalization. Hypertension may occur at any time during treatment, but it was most frequently reported within 7 days of therapy initiation. The CGRP antagonist was discontinued in many of the reported cases. Monitor individuals for new-onset hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension during rimegepant treatment. Consider whether discontinuation of rimegepant is warranted if evaluation fails to establish an alternative etiology for hypertension or blood pressure is inadequately controlled.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    Raynaud phenomenon
    General Information
    Raynaud phenomenon and recurrence or worsening of pre-existing Raynaud phenomenon have been reported with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) antagonists, including rimegepant, during postmarketing surveillance. In reported cases with small molecule CGRP antagonists, symptom onset occurred a median of 1.5 days after administration. Many of the cases reported serious outcomes, including hospitalizations and disability, generally related to debilitating pain. In most reported cases, discontinuation of the CGRP antagonist resulted in resolution of symptoms. Discontinue rimegepant if signs or symptoms of Raynaud phenomenon develop, and evaluate individuals if symptoms do not resolve.

Description
  Text
  Rimegepant is an oral calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura and the preventative treatment of episodic migraine in adults. Rimegepant is associated with hypersensitivity reactions, including dyspnea and rash. Hypersensitivity reactions can occur days after rimegepant administration, and delayed serious hypersensitivity has occurred. The safety of using more than 18 doses of rimegepant for acute migraine treatment in a 30-day period has not been established. Coadministration of certain other drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Rimegepant is a calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist. CGRP is distributed throughout the nervous system, and it is concentrated at anatomical sites, such as the trigeminovascular system, which are involved in migraine pathophysiology. Centrally, CGRP is involved in nociceptive transmission through second and third-order neurons and pain modulation in the brainstem. Peripherally, CGRP mediates vasodilation through smooth muscle receptors. CGRP concentrations are elevated during acute migraine attacks and may be chronically elevated in chronic migraineurs.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The absolute oral bioavailability of rimegepant is approximately 64%. Peak plasma concentrations occur at approximately 1.5 hours after oral administration. Tmax was delayed by 1 to 1.5 hours when rimegepant was administered with a high-fat or low-fat meal. Cmax and AUC were reduced by 42% to 53% and 32% to 38%, respectively, when rimegepant was administered after a high-fat meal. A low-fat meal reduced rimegepant Cmax by 36% and AUC by 28%. The impact of the reduction in rimegepant exposure because of administration with food on its efficacy is unknown. Rimegepant was administered without regard to food in clinical studies.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Rimegepant exposure was approximately 2-fold higher in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) relative to subjects with normal hepatic function after a single 75 mg dose. There were no clinically meaningful differences in the exposure of rimegepant in subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or B) relative to those with normal hepatic function.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Rimegepant exposure was approximately 40% higher in subjects with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 59 mL/minute) relative to subjects with normal renal function (CrCl 90 mL/minute or more) after a single 75 mg dose. However, there was no clinically meaningful difference in rimegepant exposure in subjects with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute) relative to those with normal renal function. Rimegepant has not been studied in individuals with end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of rimegepant were observed based on age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of rimegepant were observed based on sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of rimegepant were observed based on race/ethnicity.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of rimegepant were observed based on body weight.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    CYP2C9 Genotype
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of rimegepant were observed based on CYP2C9 genotype.
  Text
  Rimegepant is administered orally or sublingually. Plasma protein binding of rimegepant is approximately 96%. The steady-state Vd of rimegepant is 120 L. Rimegepant is eliminated mainly through metabolism, primarily by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP2C9. Rimegepant is primarily eliminated in unchanged form (approximately 77% of the dose). No major metabolites have been detected in plasma. After oral administration of [14C]-rimegepant to healthy subjects, 78% of the total radioactivity was recovered in feces and 24% in urine. Unchanged rimegepant is the major single component in excreted feces (42%) and urine (51%). The elimination half-life of rimegepant is approximately 11 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C9, CYP3A4, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT3, OCT2, P-gp, MATE1
Rimegepant is a substrate for CYP2C9, CYP3A4, BCRP, and P-gp. Rimegepant is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 with time-dependent inhibition. Rimegepant is a weak inhibitor of OATP1B1 and OAT3 and an inhibitor of OATP1B3, OCT2, and MATE1. Administration of rimegepant with BCRP inhibitors is not expected to have a clinically significant impact on rimegepant exposure. In a dedicated interaction study, rimegepant coadministration had no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of a MATE1 transporter substrate. Clinically relevant drug interactions are not expected with OATP1B3 or OCT2 substrates.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Oral disintegrating tablets (ODT)
May be taken with or without food.
With dry hands, peel back the foil covering of 1 blister and remove the tablet. Do not push the ODT through the foil.
Place the tablet on the tongue, or alternatively, under the tongue.
The ODT will dissolve in saliva and can be swallowed without additional liquid.
Storage: Administer the ODT immediately after opening the blister pack. Do not store the ODT outside the blister pack for future use.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    75 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    75 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed in mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A or B). Avoid rimegepant use in individuals with severe hepatic disease (Child-Pugh Class C).
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 mL/minute or more). Avoid rimegepant use in end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute).
