=== Benzphetamine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1210)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Benzphetamine is an oral, indirect-acting sympathomimetic amine that is metabolized to various amphetamines (i.e., amphetamine and methamphetamine).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 150 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dysgeusia, cardiac valvulopathy, cardiomyopathy, hypertension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, depression, dizziness, headache, insomnia, mania, psychosis, restlessness, tremor, anaphylactoid reactions, hyperhidrosis, rash, urticaria, physiological dependence, psychological dependence, tolerance, withdrawal

In an Overdose: Practitioners should be alert to the signs of excessive dosages or overdose which may include: angina, anxiety, agitation, biting, blurred vision, delirium, diaphoresis, flushing or pallor, hallucinations, hyperthermia, labile blood... Severe manifestations of amphetamine overdose include cardiac arrhythmias including heart block, circulatory collapse, rhabdomyolysis, seizures, coma, and death.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Benzphetamine is contraindicated for use in patients with known hypersensitivity to sympathomimetic amines or any component of these products. Benzphetamine tablets may contain tartrazine, and patients who have experienced a tartrazine dye hypersensitivity reaction should avoid using the tablets...

Brand Names
  - Didrex
  - Regimex

Dosage Forms
  - Benzphetamine Hydrochloride 25mg Oral tablet
  - Benzphetamine Hydrochloride 50mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        25 to 50 mg PO once daily initially, preferably at mid-morning or mid-afternoon. Start with the lowest dosage in older adults. May increase according to patient response and tolerance, up to 50 mg PO 2 or 3 times daily. Max: 150 mg/day PO. Continue only if the patient has satisfactory weight loss within the first 4 weeks of treatment (i.e., weight loss of at least 4 pounds, or as determined by the physician). When tolerance to the anorectic effect develops, do not exceed the recommended dose in an attempt to increase the effect; instead, the drug should be discontinued. Guidelines do not generally recommend use in adults for obesity and weight management.
        Heading
        Adolescents 17 years of age
        Dosage Description
        25 to 50 mg PO once daily initially, preferably at mid-morning or mid-afternoon. May increase according to patient response, up to 50 mg PO 2 or 3 times daily. Max: 150 mg/day PO. Continue only if the patient has satisfactory weight loss within the first 4 weeks of treatment (i.e., weight loss of at least 4 pounds, or as determined by the physician). When tolerance to the anorectic effect develops, do not exceed the recommended dose in an attempt to increase the effect; instead, the drug should be discontinued. Guidelines do not generally recommend use in pediatric patients.
    Heading
    For the short-term (a few weeks) treatment of exogenous obesity

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Benzphetamine is contraindicated for use in patients with known hypersensitivity to sympathomimetic amines or any component of these products. Benzphetamine tablets may contain tartrazine, and patients who have experienced a tartrazine dye hypersensitivity reaction should avoid using the tablets that contain this dye.
 
Benzphetamine is contraindicated in patients with a history of substance abuse. Benzphetamine has a high potential for abuse. Obesity treatment with benzphetamine should be tried only in weight reduction programs for patients in whom alternative therapies including dietary restriction and exercise alone have been ineffective. Benzphetamine is not recommended for use in patients with a history of anorexia nervosa or other eating disorders. Administration of benzphetamine for a prolonged period of time, in the treatment of obesity, may lead to physical and psychological drug dependence. Risk versus benefit should be weighed in patients with a history of alcoholism, major depression, or suicidal ideation. Symptoms of chronic intoxication include insomnia, irritability, change in personality, or psychotic symptoms that may be clinically indistinguishable from other psychotic disorders, like schizophrenia. The lowest reasonable amount should be prescribed and dispensed at a time in order to limit the potential for overuse or drug diversion.
 
Benzphetamine is contraindicated in patients with symptomatic cardiac disease, advanced arteriosclerosis, and moderate to severe hypertension. Patients with even mild hypertension should be closely monitored while taking benzphetamine.
 
Benzphetamine is contraindicated in patients who have received MAOI therapy within the past 14 days due to the possibility of precipitating a hypertensive crisis.
 
Benzphetamine is contraindicated for use in thyroid disease patients with hyperthyroidism, as sympathomimetic stimulation may induce cardiac arrhythmias or other side effects.
 
Patients who experience seizures or who have a seizure disorder, or patients taking certain anti-seizure medications (see Drug Interactions) should use benzphetamine with caution. Benzphetamine may decrease the seizure threshold and increase the risk of experiencing seizures. If seizures occur in a patient on benzphetamine, drug discontinuation may be necessary.
 
Insulin and oral antidiabetic agent requirements in patients with diabetes mellitus may be altered in association with the use of anorectic drugs, including benzphetamine, and the concomitant dietary restrictions.
 
Benzphetamine is contraindicated in patients with glaucoma due to the potential for sympathetic stimulation to block aqueous outflow and raise intraocular pressure.
 
Benzphetamine is an FDA pregnancy category X drug. Amphetamines have been shown to be teratogenic and embryotoxic when administered to mammals at high multiples of the human dose. Benzphetamine is contraindicated in females who are or may become pregnant. If a patient should become pregnant while taking this drug, she should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Non-teratogenic effects are known to occur in human neonates who are born to mothers dependent on amphetamines. These have included increased incidences of premature births, low birth weights, and physical withdrawal symptoms. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of amphetamine use in pregnant women.
 
Benzphetamine is excreted in breast-milk, with breast-milk concentrations often being higher than plasma levels. It is recommended that breast-feeding women refrain from taking benzphetamine.
 
Appetite suppressants, including benzphetamine, are not recommended for use in children up to 12 years of age because appropriate studies have not been performed in the pediatric population.
 
The use of benzphetamine may cause dizziness, mask signs of fatigue or the need for rest, or impair the ability of a patient to participate in activities that require mental alertness. Patients should not perform such tasks, including driving or operating machinery, until they are aware of how this medication affects them. Debilitated patients or the elderly may be more susceptible to the CNS and sympathomimetic side effects of benzphetamine; use with caution in elderly patients.
 
Use benzphetamine with caution in patients with a history of a seizure disorder because the seizure threshold can be reduced, particularly during excess CNS stimulation (i.e., benzphetamine overdosage). The effects of amphetamines on the seizure threshold, in normal therapeutic dosages, are less clear. If seizures occur, consider discontinuation of therapy.
 
The use of inhalational anesthetics during surgery may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of benzphetamine and other sympathomimetic drugs.
 
Amphetamines lower the seizure threshold. Because of a potential increased risk of seizures, amphetamines should not be used during intrathecal radiographic contrast administration. Amphetamines should be discontinued 48 hours before the myelography and should not be resumed until at least 24 hours after the procedure.
 
Abrupt discontinuation of benzphetamine after chronic use is not recommended. Discontinuation may unmask severe mental depression or extreme fatigue, or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Gradual withdrawal of therapy is recommended.
 
Benzphetamine is contraindicated in patients who are in an agitated state. In patients with psychosis, amphetamines may exacerbate behavioral disturbances, psychosis, or thought disorders. Many amphetamines may precipitate motor or phonetic tics in those with Tourette's syndrome. If benzphetamine must be used in such patients, administer under close supervision and at the lowest effective dose.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Benzphetamine is also contraindicated in people with a prior history of hypersensitivity or idiosyncratic reaction to sympathomimetic amines.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    To limit unwarranted exposure and risks, treatment with benzphetamine should be continued only if the patient has satisfactory weight loss within the first 4 weeks of treatment (i.e., weight loss of at least 4 pounds, or as determined by the physician and patient).
When tolerance to the anorectic effect of benzphetamine develops, the recommended dose should not be exceeded in an attempt to increase the effect; rather, the drug should be discontinued.
    Headline
    substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    Benzphetamine is contraindicated in people with a history of a substance abuse disorder. Before use of benzphetamine, evaluate individuals for a personal or family history of abuse of prescription medicines or street drugs, or abuse or dependence on alcohol. Benzphetamine has a high potential for abuse. Administration of amphetamines for a prolonged period of time may lead to physical and psychological dependence.
    Headline
    cardiovascular disease, pulmonary hypertension
    General Information
    Benzphetamine is contraindicated in individuals with symptomatic cardiovascular disease, including advanced arteriosclerosis and moderate to severe hypertension. Benzphetamine is also not recommended in individuals with known heart murmur, valvular heart disease, or cardiac arrhythmias. Sympathomimetic agents may increase blood pressure and heart rate; monitor blood pressure and heart rate in treated individuals. The use of anorectic agents has been associated with an increased risk of developing pulmonary hypertension, a rare, but often fatal disorder, and some anorectic agents have been associated with the development of valvular heart disease. Possible contributing factors include use for extended periods of time, higher than recommended dose, and/or use in combination with other anorectic drugs. Consider baseline cardiac evaluation to detect preexisting valvular heart disease or pulmonary hypertension prior to initiation of benzphetamine treatment. An echocardiogram during and after treatment could be useful for detecting any valvular disorders which may occur. Further, use benzphetamine with caution in individuals with even mild hypertension. In benzphetamine recipients, the onset or aggravation of exertional dyspnea, or unexplained symptoms of angina pectoris, syncope, or lower extremity edema suggest the possibility of occurrence of pulmonary hypertension. Under these circumstances, benzphetamine should be immediately discontinued, and the patient should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension.
    Headline
    agitated state
    General Information
    Benzphetamine is contraindicated for use in individuals who are in an agitated state. Psychological disturbances have been reported in patients who receive an anorectic agent together with a restrictive dietary regimen.
    Headline
    hyperthyroidism
    General Information
    Because benzphetamine is an amphetamine class sympathomimetic agent and may increase heart rate and blood pressure, it is contraindicated in individuals with hyperthyroidism.
    Headline
    glaucoma
    General Information
    Benzphetamine is contraindicated in patients with glaucoma as the sympathomimetic actions of the drug may raise intraocular pressure, particularly in patients with untreated or undiagnosed angle-closure glaucoma.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Use benzphetamine with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus. Insulin or other diabetes medication requirements may be altered in these individuals when using benzphetamine due to the medication, weight loss, and changing dietary regimens.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    The use of benzphetamine may cause dizziness, mask signs of fatigue or the need for rest, or impair the ability of an individual to participate in activities requiring coordination and concentration. Patients should not perform such tasks, including driving or operating machinery, until they are aware of how this medication affects them.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    In general, benzphetamine dosage selection for the geriatric adult should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosage range. Clinical studies of benzphetamine did not include sufficient numbers of older adults 65 years of age or older to establish safety or efficacy in this population.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Benzphetamine is contraindicated during pregnancy. Amphetamines have been shown to be teratogenic and embryotoxic in mammals at high multiples of the human dose. Apprise pregnant patients of the potential hazards to the fetus. Weight loss medications offer no potential benefit during pregnancy and weight loss coupled with caloric restriction may also result in fetal harm. In addition, non-teratogenic effects are known to occur in neonates who are born to mothers dependent on amphetamines and include increased incidences of premature birth, low birth weight, and physical withdrawal symptoms.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Because benzphetamine may cause fetal harm and thus poses a reproductive risk, benzphetamine use is contraindicated in people who may become pregnant. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, apprise the individual of the potential hazard to the fetus.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking benzphetamine. Amphetamines are excreted in human milk. Potential side effects of amphetamines in breastfed children include irritability, insomnia, and feeding difficulty. Large dosages of amphetamines might also interfere with milk production, especially in people in whom lactation is not well established.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Benzphetamine is contraindicated during pregnancy. Amphetamines have been shown to be teratogenic and embryotoxic in mammals at high multiples of the human dose. Apprise pregnant patients of the potential hazards to the fetus. Weight loss medications offer no potential benefit during pregnancy and weight loss coupled with caloric restriction may also result in fetal harm. In addition, non-teratogenic effects are known to occur in neonates who are born to mothers dependent on amphetamines and include increased incidences of premature birth, low birth weight, and physical withdrawal symptoms.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking benzphetamine. Amphetamines are excreted in human milk. Potential side effects of amphetamines in breastfed children include irritability, insomnia, and feeding difficulty. Large dosages of amphetamines might also interfere with milk production, especially in people in whom lactation is not well established.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Urinary alkalinizers, such as acetazolamide, result in decreased renal excretion of amphetamines. Monitor for amphetamine-related side effects. Avoid concomitant use in amphetamine overdose situations. Urinary alkalinizers increase the proportion of non-ionized metabolites of the amphetamine molecule, resulting in decreased renal excretion of these compounds. Alkaline urine will significantly increase the half-life of benzphetamine.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering alfentanil with amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Alkalinizing Agents: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Careful observation is required when amantadine is administered concurrently with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants. An increase in stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias may occur.
Ambrisentan: (Minor) Sympathomimetics such as benzphetamine can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy of ambrisentan.
Amifampridine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with benzphetamine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Benzphetamine may increase the risk of seizures.
aMILoride: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
amLODIPine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amoxapine: (Major) Concomitant use of amoxapine with sympathomimetics should be avoided whenever possible; use with caution when concurrent use cannot be avoided. One drug information reference suggests that cyclic antidepressants potentiate the pharmacologic effects of indirect-acting sympathomimetics, such as amphetamine, however, the data are not consistent.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Antacids: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when arformoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines, (e.g., dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine, amphetamine) has not been studied. In a single-dose study of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, no pharmacokinetic interactions occurred but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin C: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amphetamines and gastrointestinal acidifying agents, such as ascorbic acid, vitamin C, should be used with caution. Vitamin C lowers the absorption of amphetamines, resulting in reduced efficacy. It may be advisable to separate times of administration. In addition, ascorbic acid acts as a urinary acidifier, which reduces the renal tubular reabsorption of amphetamines, accelerating amphetamine clearance and reducing the duration of effect. If combined use is necessary, the amphetamine dose should be adjusted according to clinical response as needed.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure; atomoxetine has been reported to also increase blood pressure and heart rate, probably via inhibition of norepinephrine reuptake. Due to an additive pharmacodynamic effect, amphetamines and atomoxetine should be used together cautiously, particularly in patients with a history of cardiac disease. Consider monitoring heart rate and blood pressure at baseline and regularly throughout treatment if these agents must be used together.
Azilsartan: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Benazepril: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. (Major) Urinary acidifying agents, such as ammonium chloride, phosphorus salts, and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate), reduce the tubular reabsorption of amphetamines. As a result, amphetamine clearance is accelerated and the duration of effect is reduced. Combination therapy should be avoided if possible.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when sympathomimetics are administered with bretylium. The pressor and arrhythmogenic effects of catecholamines are enhanced by bretylium.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Limit the concomitant use of bromocriptine and a sympathomimetic to 10 days or less. Both medications may increase the risk for blood pressure elevations and tachycardia.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Bumetanide: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
buPROPion: (Major) The risk of seizures from the use of bupropion may be increased with concomitant use of CNS stimulants and anorectics that may induce seizures, including benzphetamine. Concurrent use is not recommended. Extreme caution and close clinical monitoring is recommended if these agents must be used together.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) The risk of seizures from the use of bupropion may be increased with concomitant use of CNS stimulants and anorectics that may induce seizures, including benzphetamine. Concurrent use is not recommended. Extreme caution and close clinical monitoring is recommended if these agents must be used together.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Coadministration of buspirone with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Buspirone has some serotonergic properties. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants. Patients may need to reduce, limit, or avoid caffeine intake. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Calcium Carbonate: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Moderate) Sodium oxybate has the potential to induce seizures; it has been speculated that this effect may be mediated through the action of sodium oxybate at GABA receptors. Although convulsant effects occur primarily at high dosages, sodium oxybate should be used cautiously with psychostimulants that are known to lower seizure threshold such as the amphetamines. Note that CNS stimulants, including the amphetamines, methylphenidate, and modafinil are frequently used in the treatment of narcolepsy, and clinical trials involving the use of psychostimulants with sodium oxybate have not found the combinations to be unsafe. Pharmacodynamic interactions cannot be ruled out, however.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Captopril: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and tramadol. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. An additive risk of seizures is also possible. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk of serotonin syndrome and seizures and monitor for adverse effects particularly after a dose increase or the addition of interacting medications. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like citalopram with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Clevidipine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
cloNIDine: (Major) Benzphetamine can increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of clonidine. This represents a pharmacodynamic, and not a pharmacokinetic, interaction. Close monitoring of blood pressure, especially in patients who are taking antihypertensive agents, may be needed.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine. If unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine and vasoconstrictor agents during nasal and sinus surgery. The risk for nervousness, irritability, convulsions, and other cardiac arrhythmias may increase during coadministration.
Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dacomitinib: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity, including serotonin syndrome, may be increased during concurrent use with dacomitinib. Concurrent use of dacomitinib, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, may increase exposure to the amphetamine increasing the risk for serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and dacomitinib should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) The risk of seizures from the use of bupropion may be increased with concomitant use of CNS stimulants and anorectics that may induce seizures, including benzphetamine. Concurrent use is not recommended. Extreme caution and close clinical monitoring is recommended if these agents must be used together.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of quinidine, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
dilTIAZem: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxazosin: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving doxazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with sympathomimetics may result in additive hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity. Dronabinol, THC has been associated with occasional hypotension, hypertension, syncope, and tachycardia. In a study of 7 adult males, combinations of IV cocaine and smoked marijuana, 1 g marijuana cigarette, 0 to 2.7% delta-9-THC, increased the heart rate above levels seen with either agent alone, with increases plateauing at 50 bpm.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Eplerenone: (Major) Benzphetamine can increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of eplerenone. This represents a pharmacodynamic, and not a pharmacokinetic, interaction. Close monitoring of blood pressure, especially in patients who are taking antihypertensive agents, may be needed.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like escitalopram with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and an amphetamine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as amphetamines, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Eslicarbazepine: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary. Additionally, amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide, ethotoin (hydantoin), phenobarbital, and phenytoin, the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Sympathomimetics lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ethosuximide: (Major) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use benzphetamine with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary. Additionally, the amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Etomidate: (Major) Inhalational general anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics. Dosages of sympathomimetics should be substantially reduced prior to surgery, and caution should be observed with concurrent use of anesthetics.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Felodipine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and amphetamines with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) If concomitant use of fentanyl and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and fluoxetine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should also be used when salmeterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like fluvoxamine with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Food: (Moderate) Foods that acidify the urine may increase benzphetamine renal excretion. Conversely, foods that alkalinize the urine may slightly slow urinary excretion of amphetamines. Patients should not significantly alter their diets, however, as these changes are not expected to be clinically significant. (Moderate) In general, food does not significantly interact with the amphetamine stimulants, a dose may be taken with or without food. However, certain gastrointestinal acidifying agents (e.g., certain fruit juices, etc.) can lower the oral absorption of amphetamines. To ensure proper absorption, it may be prudent for the patient to avoid citrus fruits and citrus juices 1 hour before a dose, at the time of dosing, and for the 1 hour following a dose. In addition, the excretion of amphetamines is increased in acidic urine and decreased in alkaline urine. Foods that acidify the urine, such as cranberry juice, orange juice, or those that contain vitamin C (ascorbic acid) may increase amphetamine renal excretion. Conversely, foods that alkalinize the urine, such as beets, dairy products, kale, spinach may slightly slow urinary excretion of amphetamines. Patients should not significantly alter their diets, however, as these changes in urinary pH from foods are not expected to be clinically significant for most patients.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Fosinopril: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Frovatriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Furosemide: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and amphetamines is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents, such as amphetamines, may increase blood pressure and reduce the antihypertensive effects of antihypertensive agents, such as guanfacine. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate periodically when prescribed together. Guanfacine may be used adjunctively to psychostimulants such as amphetamines in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Pharmacokinetic studies reveal that guanfacine does not influence lisdexamfetamine pharmacokinetics and lisdexamfetamine does not affect guanfacine pharmacokinetics. No dosage adjustments are required when guanfacine and amphetamines are used together for ADHD. Monitor heart rate, blood pressure and for sedation during ADHD treatment.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydromorphone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. (Major) Urinary acidifying agents, such as ammonium chloride, phosphorus salts, and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate), reduce the tubular reabsorption of amphetamines. As a result, amphetamine clearance is accelerated and the duration of effect is reduced. Combination therapy should be avoided if possible.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Iloprost: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with iloprost. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including iloprost. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Indapamide may increase blood levels and therefore potentiate the actions of amphetamines. Thiazide diuretics and related drugs like indapamide may increase urinary pH, acting as a urinary alkalinizer, thus reducing urinary excretion and increasing blood concentrations of the amphetamine. Co-administration of amphetamines and urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided if possible. If needed, monitor for common amphetamine side effects, including decreased appetite, anxiety, dizziness, dry mouth, irritability, insomnia, nausea, increased blood pressure or increased heart rate.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue sympathomimetics for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart sympathomimetics until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as sympathomimetics, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Iodixanol: (Major) Sympathomimetics lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ioflupane I 123: (Major) Hold amphetamines for 7 days, or at least 5 medication half-lives, prior to performing dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging with radiolabeled ioflupane. Amphetamines bind to the dopamine transporter which may interfere with striatal tracer binding and increase the risk for a false-positive scan.
Iohexol: (Major) Sympathomimetics lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Sympathomimetics lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Sympathomimetics lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iopromide: (Major) Sympathomimetics lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ioversol: (Major) Sympathomimetics lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Irbesartan: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Sympathomimetics lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Isradipine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when ketamine and benzphetamine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Benzphetamine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of ketamine.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Levamlodipine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of levorphanol and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linezolid: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of linezolid. Linezolid possesses MAO-inhibiting activity and can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of the amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Linezolid also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue serotonergic drugs and institute appropriate medical management.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisinopril: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lithium: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines and lithium may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Lithium has central serotonergic effects. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation, after a dose increase, or the addition of other serotonergic medications. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Loop diuretics: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of ritonavir, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Losartan: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Loxapine: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Lurasidone: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Magnesium Salts: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Mecamylamine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by mecamylamine. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Meperidine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of meperidine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Metaproterenol: (Major) Caution and close observation should also be used when metaproterenol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Methadone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of methadone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Urinary alkalinizers, such as methazolamide, result in decreased renal excretion of amphetamines. Monitor for amphetamine-related side effects. Avoid concomitant use in amphetamine overdose situations.
Methenamine: (Major) Urinary acidifying agents, such as ammonium chloride, phosphorus salts, and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate), reduce the tubular reabsorption of amphetamines. As a result, amphetamine clearance is accelerated and the duration of effect is reduced. Combination therapy should be avoided if possible.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. (Major) Urinary acidifying agents, such as ammonium chloride, phosphorus salts, and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate), reduce the tubular reabsorption of amphetamines. As a result, amphetamine clearance is accelerated and the duration of effect is reduced. Combination therapy should be avoided if possible.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Major) Urinary acidifying agents, such as ammonium chloride, phosphorus salts, and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate), reduce the tubular reabsorption of amphetamines. As a result, amphetamine clearance is accelerated and the duration of effect is reduced. Combination therapy should be avoided if possible.
Methohexital: (Major) Inhalational general anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics. Dosages of sympathomimetics should be substantially reduced prior to surgery, and caution should be observed with concurrent use of anesthetics.
Methyldopa: (Major) Benzphetamine can increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of methyldopa. This represents a pharmacodynamic, and not a pharmacokinetic, interaction. Close monitoring of blood pressure, especially in patients who are taking antihypertensive agents, may be needed.
Methylene Blue: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as amphetamines, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
metOLazone: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and mirtazapine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Modafinil: (Moderate) The use of modafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines (e.g., amphetamine, dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine), has not been extensively studied. Patients receiving combination therapy of modafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other CNS stimulant-related side effects. In single-dose studies of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, no significant pharmacokinetic interactions occurred, but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted.
Moexipril: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Molindone: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Morphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of morphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of nalbuphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Naratriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and nefazodone. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
NiCARdipine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Nicotine: (Moderate) Nicotine use may potentiate the effects of the adrenergic agonists and the ergot alkaloids. If significant changes in nicotine intake occur, the dosages of these drugs may need adjustment.
NIFEdipine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
niMODipine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of ritonavir, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Nisoldipine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Sympathomimetics lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and fluoxetine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Olmesartan: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxymorphone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and paroxetine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Perindopril: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use benzphetamine with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary. Additionally, the amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of phenobarbital; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use benzphetamine with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary. Additionally, the amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of phenobarbital; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Major) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents. Due to the risk of unopposed alpha-adrenergic activity, amphetamines should be used cautiously with beta-blockers. Increased blood pressure, bradycardia, or heart block may occur due to excessive alpha-adrenergic receptor stimulation. In particular, amphetamines can inhibit the antihypertensive response to guanadrel, an adrenergic antagonist that causes depletion of norepinephrine in the synapse. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Phentermine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Phentolamine: (Major) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents. Due to the risk of unopposed alpha-adrenergic activity, amphetamines should be used cautiously with beta-blockers. Increased blood pressure, bradycardia, or heart block may occur due to excessive alpha-adrenergic receptor stimulation. Phentolamine may decrease, but not completely reverse, the pressor response of amphetamine overdose. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Phenytoin: (Major) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use benzphetamine with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary. Additionally, the amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of phenytoin; the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium Chloride: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium Citrate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prazosin: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving prazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as prazosin.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Procarbazine: (Major) Because procarbazine exhibits some monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity, sympathomimetic drugs should be avoided. As with MAOIs, the use of a sympathomimetic drug with procarbazine may precipitate hypertensive crisis or other serious side effects. In the presence of MAOIs, drugs that cause release of norepinephrine induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses. In general, do not use a sympathomimetic drug unless clinically necessary (e.g., medical emergencies, agents like dopamine) within the 14 days prior, during or 14 days after procarbazine therapy. If use is necessary within 2 weeks of the MAOI drug, in general the initial dose of the sympathomimetic agent must be greatly reduced. Patients should be counseled to avoid non-prescription (OTC) decongestants and other drug products, weight loss products, and energy supplements that contain sympathomimetic agents.
Propofol: (Major) Inhalational general anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics. Dosages of sympathomimetics should be substantially reduced prior to surgery, and caution should be observed with concurrent use of anesthetics.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Quinapril: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of quinidine, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using racepinephrine inhalation are advised to avoid other non-prescription products containing sympathomimetics since additive adverse effects on the cardiovascular and nervous system are possible, some which may be undesirable. Side effects such as nausea, tremor, nervousness, difficulty with sleep, and increased heart rate or blood pressure may be additive. Patients should avoid use of non-prescription decongestants, such as phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine, while using racepinephrine inhalations. Patients should avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients that are reported or claimed to have a stimulant or weight-loss effect, such as ephedrine and ephedra, Ma huang, and phenylpropanolamine. Patients taking prescription sympathomimetic or stimulant medications (including amphetamines, methylphenidate, dexmethylphenidate, isometheptane, epinephrine) should seek health care professional advice prior to the use of racepinephrine inhalations; consider therapeutic alternatives to racepinephrine for these patients.
Ramipril: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD and weight loss, non-prescription nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants, and weight loss dietary supplements containing Ephedra. Although sympathomimetics are contraindicated for use with other non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. One case of elevated blood pressure has been reported in a patient during concurrent use of the recommended dose of rasagiline and ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline. One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of another MAO-B inhibitor, selegiline, in combination with ephedrine. It should be noted that the MAO-B selectivity of rasagiline decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose and interactions with sympathomimetics may be more likely to occur at these higher doses.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering remifentanil with amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Riociguat: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with riociguat. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including riociguat. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of ritonavir, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with amphetamines due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as amphetamines. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should also be used when salmeterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) The product labels for amphetamines contraindicate use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including selegiline, due to the risk of hypertensive crisis or serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. The manufacturers of selegiline products recommend caution and monitoring of blood pressure during concurrent use with sympathomimetics.
Selexipag: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like sertraline with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sodium Acetate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Lactate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Oxybate: (Moderate) Sodium oxybate has the potential to induce seizures; it has been speculated that this effect may be mediated through the action of sodium oxybate at GABA receptors. Although convulsant effects occur primarily at high dosages, sodium oxybate should be used cautiously with psychostimulants that are known to lower seizure threshold such as the amphetamines. Note that CNS stimulants, including the amphetamines, methylphenidate, and modafinil are frequently used in the treatment of narcolepsy, and clinical trials involving the use of psychostimulants with sodium oxybate have not found the combinations to be unsafe. Pharmacodynamic interactions cannot be ruled out, however.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and amphetamines, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Spironolactone: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Coadministration of St. John's Wort with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly at initiation of treatment, after a dose increase, or the addition of other serotonergic medications. Discontinue serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering sufentanil with amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
SUMAtriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tapentadol and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Telmisartan: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Indapamide may increase blood levels and therefore potentiate the actions of amphetamines. Thiazide diuretics and related drugs like indapamide may increase urinary pH, acting as a urinary alkalinizer, thus reducing urinary excretion and increasing blood concentrations of the amphetamine. Co-administration of amphetamines and urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided if possible. If needed, monitor for common amphetamine side effects, including decreased appetite, anxiety, dizziness, dry mouth, irritability, insomnia, nausea, increased blood pressure or increased heart rate. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Terazosin: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving terazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin.
Terbutaline: (Major) Concomitant use of sympathomimetics with beta-agonists might result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with some sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation and effects such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia. Seizures or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation manifested by skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Thiothixene: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics, such as thiothixene, and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that there are potentially serious drug interactions between tipranavir and prescription amphetamine therapy or illicit amphetamine use. The risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of potent CYP2D6 inhibitors such as tipranavir. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Torsemide: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
traMADol: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and tramadol. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. An additive risk of seizures is also possible. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk of serotonin syndrome and seizures and monitor for adverse effects particularly after a dose increase or the addition of interacting medications. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and tramadol. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. An additive risk of seizures is also possible. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk of serotonin syndrome and seizures and monitor for adverse effects particularly after a dose increase or the addition of interacting medications. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Trandolapril: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
traZODone: (Moderate) Coadministration of trazodone and amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome has been reported with both drugs when taken alone, but especially when coadministered with other serotonergic agents. The MAOI activity of amphetamines may also be of concern with trazodone. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Serotonergic agents should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Treprostinil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with treprostinil. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including treprostinil. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Triamterene: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Tryptophan, 5-Hydroxytryptophan: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering amphetamines with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tryptophan. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Further study is needed to fully elucidate the severity and frequency of adverse effects that may occur from concomitant administration of amphetamines and tryptophan. Patients receiving tryptophan and an amphetamine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and during dosage increases. The amphetamine and tryptophan should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Valsartan: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Verapamil: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vilazodone. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vortioxetine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Serotonin syndrome has been reported during the combined use of amphetamine stimulants and other medications with serotonergic properties. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during postmarketing use of ziprasidone; however, a causal relationship has not been established.
ZOLMitriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Adverse effects of benzphetamine are frequent but usually mild to moderate in severity at normally prescribed doses. The side effects may be more frequent or severe during the initial days of therapy. With amphetamines in general, insomnia and anorexia (reported as loss or decrease of appetite), and other appetite changes occur in most (60—70%) patients in the first days of therapy, and occasionally are accompanied by dyspepsia or nausea/vomiting (rare). Eating small, frequent meals or snacks may help limit appetite problems. Insomnia will typically resolve within a few days of benzphetamine use, provided the dosage is appropriate and doses are not administered within 6 hours of bedtime. Avoidance of exercising late in the day, limiting intake of caffeinated beverages, and setting regular bedtime schedules may also limit sleep disruption. Continued interrupted sleep patterns may indicate a need for dosage reduction. Mild euphoria and restlessness may be noted in the first weeks of treatment. Complaints of xerostomia or dysgeusia may be limited by sucking sugarless hard candy, crushed ice, and drinking plenty of water or other fluids. Other common side effects that occur include abdominal pain (stomach-aches or cramping), headache, tearfulness or sadness (emotional lability), or dullness or fatigue. Abdominal pain or headache may respond to dosage reduction. Most side effects disappear within a few weeks of continued benzphetamine use.
In normal therapeutic doses, benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and exacerbate hypertension. Dizziness may occur. A reflex sinus bradycardia, which is not usually clinically significant, is common. Isolated reports of cardiomyopathy have been associated with chronic amphetamine administration. Benzphetamine may affect gastrointestinal tract motility, producing either constipation or diarrhea. Amphetamines have been reported to occasionally cause impotence or changes in sexual desire (libido increase or libido decrease). Allergic reactions to benzphetamine are rare, but occasionally urticaria does occur.
Toxic effects of amphetamines and sympathomimetics in general are more variable in children than in adults and appear to occur over a wide dosage range. Practitioners should be alert to the signs of excessive dosages or overdose which may include: angina, anxiety, agitation, biting, blurred vision, delirium, diaphoresis, flushing or pallor, hallucinations, hyperthermia, labile blood pressure and heart rate (hypotension or hypertension), mydriasis, palpitations, paranoia, purposeless movements, psychosis, sinus tachycardia, tachypnea, or tremor. Minor manifestation of any of these symptoms during benzphetamine use indicates a need for dosage reduction or discontinuation. Severe manifestations of amphetamine overdose include cardiac arrhythmias including heart block, circulatory collapse, rhabdomyolysis, seizures, coma, and death.
Prolonged use of amphetamines may lead to habituation and psychological dependence or physiological dependence. Historical use of anorectics has been associated with both tolerance and dependence. Tolerance may be manifested as frequent requests for prescription refills or requests for dosage increases. Signs and symptoms of chronic amphetamine abuse include occupational or social deterioration, choreoathetosis (chewing or grinding of the teeth, and unusual movements of the tongue or lips), oral ulceration, paranoia, auditory and visual hallucination, and psychosis with features indiscriminate from schizophrenia. Abuse and habituation is more likely to occur with smokeable and injectable street forms of the amphetamines versus careful oral administration via prescription. Abrupt withdrawal of amphetamines after chronic administration may unmask severe depressive symptoms or symptoms of overactive behaviors, dysphoric mood, anxiety or suicidal ideation, psychomotor agitation, insomnia or hypersomnia, agoraphobia, and EEG changes. Patients should be carefully observed during drug discontinuation; gradual reductions in treatment have been recommended. Major physiologic withdrawal symptoms are not normally noted and as such may not necessitate gradual dosage reductions in all patients.
Amphetamines stimulate the release of serotonin (5-HT) and may act as direct agonists on central serotonin receptors. Thus, amphetamines are both direct and indirect stimulants of serotonin activity. In rare cases, amphetamines may cause symptoms consistent with the serotonin syndrome when used with other medications (e.g., SSRIs) that enhance serotonin activity within the CNS.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anorexia, diarrhea, dysgeusia, nausea, xerostomia
    General Information
    The following adverse gastrointestinal disturbances have been reported with benzphetamine use: dryness of the mouth (xerostomia), unpleasant taste (dysgeusia), nausea, diarrhea, and other GI disturbances. In general, GI side effects are usually more frequent in the initial days of treatment. Most GI side effects disappear within a few weeks of continued benzphetamine use. Given that the primary action of benzphetamine and similar anorectic drugs is one of appetite suppression, patients will commonly report reduced appetite or loss of appetite (anorexia) until tolerance to the anorectic effect develops.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cardiac valvulopathy, cardiomyopathy, hypertension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Adverse cardiovascular (CV) effects that have been reported during treatment with benzphetamine and other amphetamines include elevated blood pressure and heart rate. Pre-existing hypertension can be exacerbated by benzphetamine use in therapeutic doses. The following adverse CV effects have been reported with benzphetamine use: palpitations, sinus tachycardia, and elevation of blood pressure. There have been isolated reports of cardiomyopathy and ischemic cardiac events associated with chronic amphetamine use. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, both independently and especially when used in combination with other anorectic drugs, have been reported. However, no cases of cardiac valvulopathy have been reported when benzphetamine has been used alone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiomyopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac valvulopathy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    depression, dizziness, headache, insomnia, mania, psychosis, restlessness, tremor
    General Information
    Central nervous system (CNS) effects of benzphetamine have included overstimulation, restlessness, dizziness, insomnia, tremor, increased sweating (hyperhidrosis), and headache. With amphetamines in general, insomnia and restlessness are relatively common in the first days of therapy but will typically resolve for many individuals within a few days of use, provided the dosage is appropriate and the last dose of the day doses is not administered within a few hours of bedtime. Rarely, mania or psychosis has occurred at recommended doses and depression has been reported following withdrawal of the drug. With CNS stimulants in the amphetamine class used for other indications, Have patients report any unusual changes in mood or behavior during benzphetamine treatment for clinical assessment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, hyperhidrosis, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Urticaria, rash, and other allergic reactions involving the skin have been reported with benzphetamine use. Dermatologic and allergic reactions to amphetamines are rare, however serious events such as anaphylactoid reactions may occur in those with sensitivity to sympathomimetic amines. Hyperhidrosis (increased sweating) has also been reported during use of amphetamine-class agents.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    libido decrease, libido increase
    General Information
    Endocrine effects including libido change (libido increase or libido decrease) have been reported during treatment with benzphetamine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    growth inhibition
    General Information
    Benzphetamine is an anorectic and not intended for use in attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, it is pharmacologically similar to the amphetamines and, therefore, the potential for growth inhibition, if used in children and adolescents, is a concern. Growth inhibition is a possible long-term side effect of the use of stimulants in children and adolescents; proposed mechanisms have included the suppression of appetite or an alteration in growth hormone secretion. Growth rebound has been observed after the discontinuation of the stimulant, and clinical studies do not indicate that amphetamines compromise the attainment of normal adult height and weight. However, practitioners should monitor for this side effect by monitoring height and weight parameters relative to age at the initiation of treatment and periodically during therapy with amphetamines (at minimum yearly). Patients who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      growth inhibition
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    pulmonary hypertension
    General Information
    In a case-control epidemiological study, the use of anorectic agents was associated with an increased risk of developing pulmonary hypertension, a rare, but often fatal disorder. The use of anorectic agents for longer than 3 months was associated with a 23-fold increase in the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension. Increased risk of pulmonary hypertension with repeated courses of therapy cannot be excluded. Benzphetamine use was not specifically studied in this case-control study. The onset or aggravation of exertional dyspnea, or unexplained symptoms of angina, syncope, or lower extremity edema suggest the possibility of occurrence of pulmonary hypertension. Under these circumstances, immediately discontinue benzphetamine and evaluate the patient for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    physiological dependence, psychological dependence, tolerance, withdrawal
    General Information
    Prolonged use of amphetamines, such as benzphetamine, may lead to habituation and psychological dependence or physiological dependence. Historical use of anorectics has been associated with both tolerance and dependence. Tolerance may be manifested as frequent requests for prescription refills or requests for dosage increases. Signs and symptoms of chronic amphetamine abuse include occupational or social deterioration, choreoathetosis (chewing or grinding of the teeth, and unusual movements of the tongue or lips), oral ulceration, paranoia, auditory and visual hallucination, and psychosis with features indiscriminate from schizophrenia. Abuse and habituation is more likely to occur with smokeable and injectable street forms of the amphetamines versus careful oral administration via prescription. Abrupt withdrawal of amphetamines after chronic administration may unmask severe depressive symptoms or symptoms of overactive behaviors, dysphoric mood, anxiety or suicidal ideation, psychomotor agitation, insomnia or hypersomnia, agoraphobia, and EEG changes. Patients should be carefully observed during drug discontinuation; gradual reductions in treatment have been recommended. Major physiologic withdrawal symptoms are not normally noted and as such may not necessitate gradual dosage reductions in all patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    A laboratory test interference may occur as amphetamines as a class have been reported to interfere with urinary steroid determinations. Amphetamines can cause a significant elevation in plasma corticosteroid levels; this increase is greatest in the evening.

Description
  Text
  Benzphetamine is an oral, indirect-acting sympathomimetic amine that is metabolized to various amphetamines (i.e., amphetamine and methamphetamine). Benzphetamine is used as an anorectic agent for short-term adjunct treatment of exogenous obesity in adults and adolescents 17 years of age. Appetite-suppression activity is believed to occur by direct CNS stimulation of the satiety center in the hypothalamic and limbic regions. Benzphetamine has a high potential for abuse and addiction. Tolerance to the anorectic effect of benzphetamine and other amphetamines usually develops quickly and thus limited prescription durations are recommended; do not continue use if the patient has not had satisfactory weight loss within the first 4 weeks of treatment. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinology guidelines emphasize that obesity and adiposity-based chronic disease often require long-term management and care. Because benzphetamine is indicated only for short-term use and is not recommended for long-term therapy, it is not supported as a first-line pharmacotherapy option for chronic obesity management. In adolescents, guidelines state that short-term pharmacotherapy, such as with the amphetamine anorectics, has not been shown to produce longer-term health benefits and cannot be generally recommended; reserve pharmacotherapy for those with significant, severe comorbidities who have not responded to lifestyle modification.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Benzphetamine is an amphetamine-related sympathomimetic anorectic that acts, at least in part, as a prodrug for the active metabolites d-amphetamine and d-methamphetamine. As such, its pharmacologic effects are considered amphetamine-like. Amphetamine-class agents increase central monoaminergic signaling, primarily by promoting the release of norepinephrine and dopamine and inhibiting or reversing their reuptake through presynaptic transporters; effects on serotonin are less prominent. These actions produce central nervous system stimulation and appetite suppression, as well as peripheral sympathomimetic effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. The mechanism by which amphetamine-related anorectics promote weight loss is not fully established and may involve central appetite-regulating pathways in addition to other central nervous system effects.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Based on studies in rhesus monkeys, peak CNS stimulant effects were noted at approximately 30 minutes following oral administration. Human pharmacokinetic data are not available.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic data for benzphetamine in hepatic impairment are not available.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic data for benzphetamine in renal impairment are not available.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Pediatric pharmacokinetic data for benzphetamine are not available.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic data for benzphetamine are not available based on age. Data in older adults have not been specifically studied.
  Text
  Benzphetamine is administered orally; specific human pharmacokinetic data for benzphetamine are not available. Based on pharmacologic studies in rhesus monkeys, benzphetamine is metabolized in the liver to d-methamphetamine, as well as d-amphetamine and other metabolites. N-demethylation of benzphetamine to desmethylbenzphetamine is a benzphetamine metabolite that is then further metabolized to d-amphetamine. Urinary pH is known to affect urinary excretion of the amphetamines. Urinary alkalinizing agents increase blood levels and decrease excretion of amphetamines in the urine. Urinary acidifying agents decrease blood levels and increase excretion of amphetamines in the urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: Unknown, possibly CYP2D6
Benzphetamine is metabolized to d-amphetamine (dextroamphetamine), which is known be metabolized in part by CYP2D6.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    A single daily dose is preferably administered in mid-morning or mid-afternoon, according to the individual's eating habits.
In an occasional person it may be desirable to avoid late afternoon administration.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    150 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    150 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    17 years: 150 mg/day PO.
13 to 16 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
