=== Acamprosate — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2097)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acamprosate is used as an adjunct to comprehensive management programs and psychosocial support to help alcoholics maintain abstinence following ethanol withdrawal.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Maximum dosage limit information is not available.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): acne vulgaris, alopecia, atopic dermatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, hyperhidrosis, maculopapular rash, phlebitis, photosensitivity, pruritus, psoriasis, rash, urticaria, xerosis, angina, cardiomyopathy, chest pain (unspecified), heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, peripheral vasodilation, sinus tachycardia, syncope, anemia, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy

In an Overdose: Infrequent effects (0.1—1%) included seizures, confusion, vertigo, withdrawal syndrome, apathy, suicidal ideation (including suicide attempt and intentional overdose), intentional injury, neuropathic pain, hostility, agitation, neurosis...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Acamprosate also contains sodium sulfite, which can cause allergic-type reactions, including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes, in susceptible...

ACAMPROSATE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Campral

Indication Specific Dosing

For the maintenance treatment of alcohol dependence

For use in combination with naltrexone†
Oral dosage
Adults


666 mg PO 3 times daily in combination with naltrexone (50 mg PO once daily with food). In a double-blind placebo-controlled trial, 160 patients were randomized to receive naltrexone, acamprosate, naltrexone plus acamprosate, or placebo for 12 weeks. All therapies were significantly more efficacious than placebo with regard to the primary outcomes of time to first drink, time to relapse, and cumulative abstinence. The naltrexone group tended to have a better outcome of time to first drink and time to relapse when directly compared to acamprosate. The combination of naltrexone and acamprosate demonstrated significantly lower relapse rates than placebo and acamprosate but not naltrexone. Patients received psychotherapy and psychopathologic assessments weekly throughout the treatment phase of the study.


Oral dosage
Adults


666 mg PO 3 times daily is the suggested dosage. A lower dose may be effective in some patients. Lower initial doses may be required in geriatric adults since renal function may be diminished. Alternative dosage regimens have been used. In one study, doses of 1332 mg/day PO (666 mg in the morning, 333 mg at mid-day, and 333 mg in the evening) were administered for patients 60 kg or less, and doses of 1998 mg/day PO (666 mg PO 3 times daily) were administered for patients more than 60 kg. Efficacy in promoting abstinence has not been demonstrated in patients who have not undergone detoxification or achieved alcohol abstinence; therefore, acamprosate is indicated only in patients who are abstinent at the time of treatment initiation. Maintain treatment even if the patient relapses. Pharmacotherapy should be used as a part of a comprehensive management program that includes psychosocial support and treatment.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Acamprosate also contains sodium sulfite, which can cause allergic-type reactions, including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes, in susceptible people.

renal failure, renal impairment


Acamprosate is contraindicated in people with severe renal impairment or renal failure (CrCl of 30 mL/minute or less). A reduced starting dose is recommended for people with moderate renal impairment (CrCl of 30 to 50 mL/minute). No adjustments are necessary in mild renal impairment.


General Information

The purpose of acamprosate treatment is to help with abstinence from ethanol (alcohol), in conjunction with programs that provide appropriate social and mental support. Encourage treated patients to avoid alcohol. However, treatment should be maintained even if the acamprosate recipient relapses. Clinicians should note that acamprosate does not diminish or treat alcohol withdrawal symptoms.

depression, suicidal ideation


Acamprosate should be used with caution in people with depression and/or suicidal ideation. In clinical studies of acamprosate, suicidal ideation, attempts, and completed suicides were infrequent overall but more common in acamprosate-treated patients than in the placebo group. The interrelationship between alcohol dependence, depression and suicidality is well-recognized and complex, and people who are dependent on alcohol, including those who are treated with acamprosate, should be monitored for the development of symptoms of depression or suicidal ideation during their course of recovery. Family members and caregivers of people being treated with acamprosate should also be advised to monitor for and report these symptoms to the patients' care team immediately.


geriatric


Caution should be exercised when using acamprosate in the geriatric population. Acamprosate is extensively excreted by the kidney and the risk of adverse reactions may be increased in people with impaired renal function, which can frequently occur with advanced age. Conservative dosing and titration and close monitoring of renal function is recommended in the geriatric adult. During clinical trials, no treated patients were 75 years of age or older. There were too few patients in the 65 to 74-year-old age group to evaluate any differences in safety or effectiveness compared to younger adults.


pregnancy


Use acamprosate during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Although there are no adequate or well-controlled studies during human pregnancy, animal studies have shown teratogenicity when given to rats and rabbits at approximately equal to and 3-times the human dose, on a mg/m2 basis. Additionally, acamprosate was associated with an increased incidence of still-born fetuses when given to mice at doses approximately 2 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on a mg/m2 basis. No effect noted at doses one-half the MRHD.


breast-feeding


Use acamprosate with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known whether acamprosate is excreted in human milk. Based on its relatively low molecular weight and lack of protein binding, transfer into milk is possible. However, acamprosate has poor oral bioavailability (11%), limiting the potential for systemic exposure in the breast-fed child.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Use acamprosate during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Although there are no adequate or well-controlled studies during human pregnancy, animal studies have shown teratogenicity when given to rats and rabbits at approximately equal to and 3-times the human dose, on a mg/m2 basis. Additionally, acamprosate was associated with an increased incidence of still-born fetuses when given to mice at doses approximately 2 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on a mg/m2 basis. No effect noted at doses one-half the MRHD.


Interactions

buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Minor) The administration of naltrexone with acamprosate results in an increase in acamprosate exposure (AUC) by 25% and in peak concentration (Cmax) by 33%. However, acamprosate dosage adjustments are not required.
Naltrexone: (Minor) The administration of naltrexone with acamprosate results in an increase in acamprosate exposure (AUC) by 25% and in peak concentration (Cmax) by 33%. However, acamprosate dosage adjustments are not required.


Adverse Reaction
agitation, amnesia, anxiety, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, encephalopathy, hallucinations, headache, hostility, hyperesthesia, hyperkinesis, hypersalivation, insomnia, mania, migraine, neuropathic pain, paranoia, paresthesias, psychosis, seizures, suicidal ideation, torticollis, tremor, vertigo, withdrawal


During clinical trials with acamprosate at doses of 1332—1998 mg/day, the following centrally-mediated effects occurred in at least 3% of patients receiving acamprosate and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo: anxiety (5—8% vs 6%), depression (4—8% vs 5%), dizziness (3—4% vs 3%), insomnia (6—9% vs 7%), and paresthesias (2—3% vs 2%). Other CNS effects reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation included drowsiness, amnesia, abnormal thinking, tremor, and headache. Infrequent effects (0.1—1%) included seizures, confusion, vertigo, withdrawal syndrome, apathy, suicidal ideation (including suicide attempt and intentional overdose), intentional injury, neuropathic pain, hostility, agitation, neurosis, abnormal dreams, hallucinations, hyperesthesia, and migraine. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included alcohol craving, psychosis, hyperkinesis, twitching, depersonalization, hypersalivation, paranoia, torticollis, encephalopathy, and mania.


abdominal pain, anorexia, appetite stimulation, cholecystitis, cirrhosis, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, elevated hepatic enzymes, eructation, esophagitis, flatulence, gastritis, GI bleeding, hematemesis, hepatitis, melena, nausea, oral ulceration, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer, vomiting, weight gain, weight loss


During clinical trials with acamprosate at doses of 1332—1998 mg/day, the following gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred in at least 3% of patients receiving acamprosate and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo: anorexia (2—5% vs 3%), diarrhea (10—17% vs 10%), flatulence (1—4% vs 2%), and nausea (3—4% vs 3%). Other GI effects reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation include abdominal pain, vomiting, dyspepsia, constipation, appetite stimulation, and weight gain. Infrequent effects (0.1—1%) include elevated hepatic enzymes, gastroenteritis, gastritis, dysphagia, eructation, GI bleeding, pancreatitis, rectal hemorrhage, liver cirrhosis, esophagitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, and weight loss. Rare effects (< 0.1%) include melena, peptic ulcer, cholecystitis, colitis, duodenal ulcer, oral ulceration, and hepatic carcinoma.


ejaculation dysfunction, hematuria, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, libido decrease, libido increase, menorrhagia, nephrolithiasis, nocturia, polyuria, renal failure (unspecified), urinary incontinence, urinary urgency, vaginitis


During clinical trial evaluation of acamprosate, impotence (erectile dysfunction) and libido decrease were reported in at least 1% of patients receiving acamprosate. GU effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients included metrorrhagia, increased urinary frequency, sexual dysfunction (unspecified), libido increase, urinary incontinence, and vaginitis. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included kidney calculus (nephrolithiasis), ejaculation dysfunction, hematuria, menorrhagia, nocturia, polyuria, and urinary urgency. Acute renal failure (unspecified) has been reported in at least 3 patients during non-US post-marketing evaluation of acamprosate. Although serious, no causal relationship has been found and the event was reported as temporarily associated with acamprosate.


acne vulgaris, alopecia, atopic dermatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, hyperhidrosis, maculopapular rash, phlebitis, photosensitivity, pruritus, psoriasis, rash, urticaria, xerosis


During clinical trials with acamprosate, the following dermatologic effects occurred in at least 3% of patients receiving acamprosate and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo: pruritus (3% to 4%) and hyperhidrosis (2% to 3%). Rash (unspecified) was reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation. Infrequent effects (0.1% to 1%) included acne vulgaris, atopic dermatitis, alopecia, maculopapular rash, xerosis, urticaria, exfoliative dermatitis, vesiculobullous rash, varicose vein, and phlebitis. Psoriasis and photosensitivity were reported rarely (less than 0.1%).


angina, cardiomyopathy, chest pain (unspecified), heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, peripheral vasodilation, sinus tachycardia, syncope


During clinical trial evaluation of acamprosate, the following cardiovascular events were reported in at least 1% of patients receiving acamprosate: palpitations, syncope, peripheral vasodilation, hypertension, and chest pain (unspecified). Cardiac effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients included hypotension, sinus tachycardia, hemorrhage, angina, myocardial infarction, and orthostatic hypotension. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included heart failure, mesenteric arterial occlusion, cardiomyopathy, thrombophlebitis, and shock.


goiter, hypothyroidism


During clinical trial evaluation of acamprosate, goiter and hypothyroidism were reported rarely (< 0.1%).


anemia, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, lymphocytosis, thrombocytopenia


During clinical trial evaluation of acamprosate, the following hematologic and lymphatic system effects were reported in 0.1—1% of patients: anemia, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, lymphocytosis, and thrombocytopenia. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, and monocytosis.


diabetes mellitus, gout, hyperbilirubinemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hyponatremia, peripheral edema


During clinical trial evaluation of acamprosate, peripheral edema was reported in at least 1% of patients receiving acamprosate. Metabolic and nutritional effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients included hyperglycemia, gout, thirst, hyperuricemia, diabetes mellitus, avitaminosis, and hyperbilirubinemia. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included increased alkaline phosphatase, increased creatinine, hyponatremia, and increased lactic dehydrogenase.


arthralgia, muscle cramps, myalgia, myopathy


During clinical trial evaluation of acamprosate, the following musculoskeletal effects were reported in at least 1% of patients receiving acamprosate: myalgia and arthralgia. Cardiac effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients included muscle cramps (legs). Rare effects (< 0.1%) included rheumatoid arthritis and myopathy.


bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, pharyngitis, pulmonary embolism, rhinitis


During clinical trial evaluation of acamprosate, the following respiratory effects were reported in at least 1% of patients receiving acamprosate: rhinitis, increased cough, dyspnea, pharyngitis, and bronchitis. Respiratory effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients included asthma (bronchospasm), epistaxis, and pneumonia. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included laryngismus and pulmonary embolism.


amblyopia, diplopia, dysgeusia, hearing loss, photophobia, tinnitus, visual impairment


During clinical trial evaluation of acamprosate, the following special senses effects were reported in at least 1% of patients receiving acamprosate: abnormal vision (visual impairment) and dysgeusia. Adverse effects reported in 0.1—1% of patients included tinnitus, amblyopia and hearing loss (deafness). Rare effects (< 0.1%) included ophthalmitis, diplopia, and photophobia.


ascites, asthenia, back pain, bone fractures, chills, fever, infection, influenza, malaise


During clinical trials with acamprosate at doses of 1332—1998 mg/day, the following general effects occurred in at least 3% of patients receiving acamprosate and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo: accidental injury including bone fractures (3—4% vs 3%), asthenia (5—7% vs 5%), and pain (2—4% vs 3%). Other general effects reported in at least 1% of patients during clinical trial evaluation included back pain, infection, influenza, and chills. Infrequent effects (0.1—1%) included fever, malaise, allergic reaction, abscess, neck pain, urinary tract infection, and hernia. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included ascites, facial edema, enlarged abdomen, and sudden death.


Description

Acamprosate is used as an adjunct to comprehensive management programs and psychosocial support to help alcoholics maintain abstinence following ethanol withdrawal. Acamprosate is structurally related to endogenous homotaurine, a structural analogue of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and the amino acid taurine. In a review of 16 placebo-controlled clinical trials, all but 5 showed a clinically significant difference between acamprosate and placebo regarding the proportion of patients remaining abstinent at the end of the study. Combination therapy with acamprosate and other agents is promising but limited data exists. One study involving combined acamprosate and disulfiram showed that addition of disulfiram improves the efficacy of acamprosate to prevent relapse and maintain abstinence; this conclusion should be approached cautiously given that patients receiving disulfiram were not randomized. Another study combining acamprosate and naltrexone demonstrated that the proportion of patients completely abstinent after the 12-week treatment period was twice that of placebo. The proportion of patients receiving acamprosate and naltrexone alone was also superior to placebo. Currently in progress, the COMBINE study is testing combined acamprosate and naltrexone with behavioral interventions in alcohol dependence. As single therapy, acamprosate offers a better safety profile in comparison to disulfiram or naltrexone. The FDA approved acamprosate in July 2004.

Mechanism Of Action

Mechanism of Action: The mechanism of action of acamprosate in maintenance of alcohol abstinence is not completely understood. However, in vitro data suggests that acamprosate has affinity for type A and type B GABA receptors, however it has since been proposed that the drug lowers neuronal excitability; this action appears to be a centrally-mediated. Chronic alcohol consumption results in the up-regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), an excitatory neurotransmitter of the glutamatergic system, to overcome the sedative effects of the potentiated GABAnergic system. This action allows the CNS to function more normally in a depressed state. This change in the neurotransmitter system results in anxiety, hyper-excitability and sleeplessness during alcohol withdrawal, causing the dependent patient to drink alcohol in order to relieve these symptoms. By reducing the postsynaptic efficacy of the excitatory receptors, acamprosate heightens the patients ability to remain abstinent during withdrawal. Animal studies note that the drug does not have anxiolytic, antidepressant, hypnotic, muscle relaxant, or psychotropic actions. Acamprosate reduces alcohol intake in alcohol-dependent animals in a dose-dependent manner; the effect is specific to alcohol and the mechanisms of alcohol dependence.

Pharmacokinetics

Acamprosate is administered orally. Protein binding of acamprosate is negligible and the volume of distribution is approximately 72 to 109 L (approximately 1 L/kg). Acamprosate does not undergo hepatic metabolism but is excreted as unchanged drug via the kidneys. The terminal half-life is approximately 20 to 33 hours. A linear relationship exists between creatinine clearance, total apparent plasma clearance and acamprosate half-life.
 
Affected Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: None
Acamprosate had no inducing potential on CYP1A2 and CYP3A4, and acamprosate does not inhibit in vivo metabolism mediated by CYP1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, or 3A4. The pharmacokinetic parameters of acamprosate were unaffected when administered with alcohol, disulfiram or diazepam. While co-administration of acamprosate calcium delayed-release tablets with naltrexone led to a 33% increase in the Cmax and a 25% increase acamprosate exposure (AUC), no adjustment of acamprosate dosage is recommended.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The absolute bioavailability of acamprosate is approximately 11% after oral administration. When taken with food, acamprosate peak concentration (Cmax) and exposure (AUC) are reduced by approximately 42% and 23%, respectively. However, no dosage adjustment is necessary and the drug may be given with meals.

Hepatic Impairment

The pharmacokinetic profile of acamprosate is not altered in patients with mild to moderate hepatic disease (Child-Pugh A and B) or in alcohol-dependent patients. No adjustment of dosage is needed in such patients.

Renal Impairment

The pharmacokinetic profile of acamprosate is altered by renal impairment. Peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) were 2- and 4-fold greater in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment, respectively, compared to healthy volunteers. The elimination half-life was 1.8- and 2.6-times that of healthy volunteers in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment, respectively. A dosage reduction is required in patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 50 mL/minute). Patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) should not use acamprosate.

Pediatrics

The pharmacokinetics of acamprosate have not been evaluated in pediatric patients.

Geriatric

The pharmacokinetics of acamprosate have not been evaluated in elderly patients.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations

Delayed-release Tablets
Administer whole. Tablets are enteric-coated; do not chew, crush or cut.
May administer without regard to meals. During clinical trials, dosing was scheduled with meals and may help with dosing compliance for some patients.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Maximum dosage limit information is not available.

Geriatric

Maximum dosage limit information is not available.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Acamprosate Calcium 333mg Oral tablet, gastro-resistant

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

CrCl greater than 50 mL/minute: No dosage adjustment necessary.
CrCl 30 to 50 mL/minute: A starting dose of 333 mg PO 3 times daily is recommended.
CrCl less than 30 mL/minute: Use is contraindicated.

© 2026 Elsevier