=== Efgartigimod Alfa/Hyaluronidase (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5466)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase is a combination of a neonatal Fc receptor blocker and an endoglycosidase indicated for the treatment of adults with generalized myasthenia gravis and adults with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 1,008 mg/week efgartigimod alfa and 11,200 units/week hyaluronidase subcutaneously.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): infection, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, gait disturbance, headache, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, migraine, paresthesias, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, back pain, chills, dyspnea, hypertension, hypotension, infusion-related reactions, rash, shivering, syncope, urticaria, ecchymosis, erythema, injection site reaction, pruritus

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. infection Delay efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase treatment in people with an active infection until the infection resolves. Efgartigimod alfa may increase the risk of infection. Use vial with a winged infusion set only for subcutaneous administration. Administer using a winged infusion set made of polyvinyl chloride (PVC), 25 gauge, 12 inch tubing, that has a maximum priming volume of 0.4 mL.

Brand Names
  - VYVGART Hytrulo

Dosage Forms
  - VYVGART Hytrulo 1000mg-10000unit/5mL Prefilled Syringe Solution for Injection
  - VYVGART Hytrulo 1008mg-11200unit/5.6mL Solution for Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Prior to efgartigimod; hyaluronidase initiation
Administer necessary age-appropriate vaccines according to immunization guidelines before initiation of a treatment cycle of efgartigimod alfa. Vaccination with live vaccines is not recommended during treatment with efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase. The safety of live vaccine immunization and the response to immunization during treatment is unknown.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage (single-dose vial)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1,008 mg efgartigimod alfa and 11,200 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly for 4 weeks. Administer subsequent treatment cycles according to clinical evaluation. During clinical trials, the minimum time to initiate a subsequent cycle, specified by study protocol, was 28 days from the last administration of the previous treatment cycle.
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage (single-dose prefilled syringe)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1,000 mg efgartigimod alfa and 10,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly for 4 weeks. Administer subsequent treatment cycles according to clinical evaluation. During clinical trials, the minimum time to initiate a subsequent cycle, specified by study protocol, was 28 days from the last administration of the previous treatment cycle.
    Heading
    For the treatment of generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG)
    Routes
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage (single-dose vial)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1,008 mg efgartigimod alfa; 11,200 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly. Symptom progression may indicate a lack of efficacy in treated individuals. Consider the appropriateness of continuing treatment in individuals who experience worsening of neurological symptoms (including progressive weakening of the arms and legs, numbness and tingling, impaired balance, and difficulty walking or gait disturbance) after starting efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase.
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage (single-dose prefilled syringe)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1,000 mg efgartigimod alfa; 10,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously once weekly. Symptom progression may indicate a lack of efficacy in treated individuals. Consider the appropriateness of continuing treatment in individuals who experience worsening of neurological symptoms (including progressive weakening of the arms and legs, numbness and tingling, impaired balance, and difficulty walking or gait disturbance) after starting efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase.
    Heading
    For the treatment of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Delay efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase treatment in people with an active infection until the infection resolves. Efgartigimod alfa may increase the risk of infection. Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection during treatment. If a serious infection occurs, institute appropriate therapy and consider withholding treatment until the infection resolves. Urinary tract infections and respiratory infections were the most commonly reported infections in clinical studies. A higher frequency of efgartigimod alfa recipients were also observed to have below normal levels for white blood cell counts, lymphocyte counts, and neutrophil counts when compared to placebo. The majority of infections and hematologic abnormalities were mild to moderate in severity.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available data on the use of efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase during human pregnancy. Monoclonal antibodies are increasingly transported across the placenta as pregnancy progresses, with the largest amount transferred during the third trimester; therefore, efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase may be transmitted from the to the developing fetus. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in persons exposed to efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase during pregnancy. Health care providers and individuals may call 1-855-272-6524 or go to https://www.Vyvgartpregnancy.com to enroll in or to obtain information about the registry. There was no evidence of adverse developmental outcomes following the administration of efgartigimod alfa at up to 100 mg/kg/day in rats and rabbits during animal reproductive studies. The no-effect subcutaneous dose for adverse effects on embryofetal development in the mouse was approximately 1,800 times the dose of hyaluronidase at the recommended human dose of efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase (1,008 mg efgartigimod alfa and 11,200 units hyaluronidase), on a units/kg basis.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Evaluate the need to administer age-appropriate vaccines according to immunization guidelines before initiation of a new treatment cycle with efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase. The safety of immunization with live vaccines and the immune response to vaccination during treatment with efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase are unknown. Because efgartigimod alfa causes a reduction in IgG levels, vaccination with live vaccines is not recommended during treatment with efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase.
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase is expected to reduce maternal IgG antibody levels; hence, a reduction in passive protection to the newborn is anticipated. Consider the risks and benefits prior to administering live or live-attenuated vaccines to neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data regarding the presence of efgartigimod alfa or hyaluronidase in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Maternal IgG is present in human milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for this medication and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase or from the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available data on the use of efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase during human pregnancy. Monoclonal antibodies are increasingly transported across the placenta as pregnancy progresses, with the largest amount transferred during the third trimester; therefore, efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase may be transmitted from the to the developing fetus. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in persons exposed to efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase during pregnancy. Health care providers and individuals may call 1-855-272-6524 or go to https://www.Vyvgartpregnancy.com to enroll in or to obtain information about the registry. There was no evidence of adverse developmental outcomes following the administration of efgartigimod alfa at up to 100 mg/kg/day in rats and rabbits during animal reproductive studies. The no-effect subcutaneous dose for adverse effects on embryofetal development in the mouse was approximately 1,800 times the dose of hyaluronidase at the recommended human dose of efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase (1,008 mg efgartigimod alfa and 11,200 units hyaluronidase), on a units/kg basis.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data regarding the presence of efgartigimod alfa or hyaluronidase in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Maternal IgG is present in human milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for this medication and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase or from the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Amide local anesthetics: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Aspirin, ASA: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Carbinoxamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorcyclizine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Clemastine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Minor) Corticosteroids (e.g., cortisone, corticotropin, ACTH), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cortisone: (Minor) Corticosteroids (e.g., cortisone, corticotropin, ACTH), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cyproheptadine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Doxylamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Eculizumab: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in eculizumab efficacy during concomitant use with neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers; avoid long-term concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease eculizumab overall exposure.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ester local anesthetics: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in immune globulin efficacy during concomitant use with neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers; avoid long-term concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease immune globulin overall exposure.
hydrOXYzine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in immune globulin efficacy during concomitant use with neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers; avoid long-term concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease immune globulin overall exposure.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Meclizine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ravulizumab: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ravulizumab efficacy during concomitant use with neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers. Concomitant use may decrease ravulizumab overall exposure.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Salicylates: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Salsalate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Triprolidine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    infection, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia
    General Information
    Efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase may increase the risk of infection. Respiratory tract infection occurred in 33% of subjects who received efgartigimod alfa 10 mg/kg IV (n = 84), compared to 29% of subjects who received placebo (n = 83), during a clinical study in persons with generalized myasthenia gravis. Urinary tract infection occurred in 10% of subjects who received efgartigimod alfa 10 mg/kg IV compared to 5% of subjects who received placebo. Compared to placebo, efgartigimod alfa-treated subjects experienced lower concentrations of white blood cells (12% vs. 5%), lymphocyte counts (28% vs. 19%), and neutrophil counts (13% vs. 6%). On average, subjects received 2 cycles of efgartigimod alfa during the study. Most infections and hematologic abnormalities (e.g., leukopenia, neutropenia, or lymphopenia) were mild to moderate in severity. If a serious infection occurs during treatment, institute appropriate therapy and consider withholding treatment until the infection is resolved. Delay efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase administration in persons with an active infection until the infection is resolved.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    gait disturbance, headache, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, migraine, paresthesias
    General Information
    Headache, including migraine and procedural headache, occurred in 32% of subjects who received efgartigimod alfa 10 mg/kg IV (n = 84), compared to 29% of subjects who received placebo (n = 83), during a clinical study in persons with generalized myasthenia gravis. Paresthesias, including oral hypoesthesia, hypoesthesia, and hyperesthesia, occurred in 7% of subjects who received efgartigimod alfa 10 mg/kg IV compared to 5% of subjects who received placebo. On average, subjects received 2 cycles of efgartigimod alfa during the study. In a clinical study of efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase in which subjects received 1 cycle of once weekly administrations for 4 weeks, headache was reported in at least 10% of treated subjects. Not all individuals respond to efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase when treating chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). There have also been reports of worsening of symptoms and signs of CIDP when transitioning from intravenous immunoglobulin treatments to efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase during postmarketing surveillance. During clinical trials, 36 subjects (11%) demonstrated lack of efficacy and 19 subjects (6%) experienced CIDP worsening as determined by reasonable clinical judgment. Consider the appropriateness of continuing treatment in individuals who experience worsening of neurological symptoms (including progressive weakening of the arms and legs, numbness and tingling, impaired balance, and difficulty walking or gait disturbance) after starting efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      gait disturbance
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperesthesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    myalgia
    General Information
    Myalgia occurred in 6% of subjects who received IV efgartigimod alfa 10 mg/kg (n = 84), compared to 1% of subjects who received placebo (n = 83), during a clinical study in persons with generalized myasthenia gravis. On average, subjects received 2 cycles of efgartigimod alfa during the study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, back pain, chills, dyspnea, hypertension, hypotension, infusion-related reactions, rash, shivering, syncope, urticaria
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions (anaphylaxis) and hypotension leading to syncope, were observed during postmarketing experience with intravenous efgartigimod alfa. Anaphylaxis and hypotension occurred during the infusion or within 1 hour of drug administration. Temporary and permanent treatment discontinuation was reported. Hypersensitivity reactions, including rash, angioedema, dyspnea, and urticaria were observed in subjects who received subcutaneous efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase or intravenous efgartigimod alfa during clinical studies. These hypersensitivity reactions occurred within 1 hour to 3 weeks of administration, were mild to moderate, and did not lead to treatment discontinuation. Monitor for clinical signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions during administration and for 30 minutes after the infusion. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, institute appropriate supportive measures, if needed. Intravenous efgartigimod alfa is associated with a variety of infusion-related reactions, including hypertension, chills, shivering, thoracic pain, abdominal pain, and back pain. Consider the risks and benefits of readministering efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase after a serious infusion-related reaction. If a mild to moderate infusion-related reaction occurs, persons may be rechallenged with close clinical observation, slower infusion rates, and premedications. If a severe infusion-related reaction occurs during administration, institute appropriate therapy and discontinue efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      shivering
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infusion-related reactions
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    ecchymosis, erythema, injection site reaction, pruritus
    General Information
    An injection site reaction, including injection site rash, erythema, pruritus, bruising or ecchymosis, pain, and urticaria, was reported in 38% of subjects with generalized myasthenia gravis treated with efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase injection during clinical trials. The majority of injection site reactions occurred within 24 hours of administration, were mild to moderate, did not require treatment discontinuation, and resolved spontaneously. Most cases of injection site reaction occurred within the first treatment cycle and the incidence decreased with each subsequent cycle. Injection site reaction was also reported in 15% of subjects with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy treated with efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase compared to 6% of subjects who received placebo. The most common injection site reactions were injection site bruising and injection site erythema. All injection site reactions were mild to moderate in severity and occurred during the first 3 months of treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    antibody formation
    General Information
    Anti-efgartigimod alfa antibodies were observed in 35% (19/55) of subjects with generalized myasthenia gravis treated with subcutaneous efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase and 20% (11/55) of subjects with generalized myasthenia gravis treated with intravenous efgartigimod alfa during clinical studies. Neutralizing anti-efgartigimod alfa antibodies were detected in 4% (2/55) of subjects treated with subcutaneous or intravenous efgartigimod alfa. In clinical studies for the treatment of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, the incidence of anti-efgartigimod alfa antibodies was 6% (20/317) in the open-label study phase (stage A) and 2% (2/111) in the randomized, controlled trial study phase (stage B) after treatment with subcutaneous efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase. Neutralizing anti-efgartigimod alfa antibodies were detected in 0.3% (1/317) of subjects in stage A and no subjects in stage B. There are no available data to determine the effects of antibody formation on the pharmacokinetics, safety, or efficacy of efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      antibody formation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nausea
    General Information
    Nausea (7%) was reported during clinical trials in anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody negative subjects with generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG) who received efgartigimod alfa.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase is a combination of a neonatal Fc receptor blocker and an endoglycosidase indicated for the treatment of adults with generalized myasthenia gravis and adults with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. Efgartigimod alfa is a human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) antibody fragment that binds to the neonatal Fc receptor, resulting in the reduction of circulating IgG; hyaluronidase transiently increases permeability of the subcutaneous tissue by depolymerizing hyaluronan. Efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase may increase the risk of infection, and injection site adverse reactions are common with efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase use. Efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase was FDA-approved in June 2023.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Efgartigimod alfa is a human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) antibody fragment that binds to the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn), resulting in the reduction of circulating IgG. A reduction in FcRn binding to pathogenic antibodies present in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy decreases antibody lifespan and pathogenic effects. Hyaluronidase is an endoglycosidase that increases the permeability of subcutaneous tissue by depolymerizing hyaluronan. Hyaluronidase increases the dispersion and absorption of efgartigimod alfa. The effect of hyaluronidase on tissue permeability is not permanent and permeability is restored within 24 to 48 hours.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Subcutaneous Route
    Description
    Efgartigimod alfa exposures were approximately dose-proportional with subcutaneous doses up to 1,750 mg of efgartigimod alfa (1.75 times the recommended dosage). The rate and extent of absorption from single-dose prefilled syringe and single-dose vial are similar.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase in subjects with hepatic impairment have not been studied. Hepatic impairment is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of efgartigimod alfa.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Subjects with mild renal impairment (eGFR 60 to 89 mL/minute/1.72 m2) had an 11% to 20% increase in efgartigimod alfa exposure compared to subjects with normal renal function. The effects of moderate or severe renal impairment (eGFR 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or less) on the pharmacokinetics of efgartigimod alfa are unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The effect of age on efgartigimod alfa plasma exposure was not clinically significant.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The effect of sex on efgartigimod alfa plasma exposure was not clinically significant.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The effect of race on efgartigimod alfa plasma exposure was not clinically significant.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    The influence of body weight on efgartigimod alfa exposure after subcutaneous administration of 1,008 mg was limited and not clinically relevant.
  Text
  Efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase is administered subcutaneously. Efgartigimod alfa has a Vd of 15 to 20 L. Efgartigimod alfa and hyaluronidase are expected to be degraded by enzymatic proteolysis into small peptides and amino acids. Less than 0.1% of a dose of efgartigimod alfa was recovered in urine of healthy subjects after a single IV dose of 10 mg/kg. The terminal half-life of efgartigimod alfa is 80 to 120 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None
Efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase is not metabolized by CYP450 isoenzymes. Interactions with CYP450 substrates, inducers, or inhibitors are not expected.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Subcutaneous Administration
      Description
      Prefilled syringe may be administered by patients and/or caregivers after proper instruction. The single-dose vial is to be administered only by a health care professional.
Allow the refrigerated solution to come to room temperature before use. Remove vial from refrigeration at least 15 minutes before administration. Remove prefilled syringe from refrigeration at least 30 minutes before administration. Do not use external heat sources.
Avoid exposure to direct sunlight.
Do not shake.
Do not dilute efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase.
Prefilled syringes and vials are for single use only and do not contain preservatives.
Missed Dose: If a dose is missed, administer the missed dose up to 3 days after the scheduled dose. Thereafter, resume the original dosing schedule until the treatment cycle is completed.
Storage: Unopened vials may be stored in the original carton for up to 3 days at room temperature at 20 to 25 degrees C (68 to 77 degrees F) for a single period before administration or returning to refrigeration. Do not store a vial at room temperature more than one time. Record the date removed from and returned to refrigeration on the carton. If needed, prefilled syringes may be stored at room temperature at up to 30 degrees C (86 degrees F) in the original carton for a single period of up to 30 days after removing from refrigerator or until expiration date on the carton, whichever occurs first. Record the date removed from the refrigerator on the carton.
 
Single-Dose Prefilled Syringe
Use a safety needle that is 25 gauge, 5/8 inches in length, and thin wall type to administer efgartigimod; hyaluronidase.
Choose an injection site on the abdomen at least 2 inches away from the navel. Do not inject into areas where the skin is red, bruised, infected, tender, hard, or where moles or scars are present. Rotate injection sites with each administration.
Pinch an area of skin and inject at a 45- to 90-degree angle subcutaneously over 20 to 30 seconds.
Monitor for signs and symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction for at least 30 minutes after administration. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, institute appropriate therapy.
Discard any unused portions of the medication remaining in the syringe in a proper sharps container.
 
Single-Dose Vial
Preparation
Use aseptic technique when preparing and administering efgartigimod; hyaluronidase.
Each vial contains overfill to compensate for liquid loss during preparation and during priming of the infusion set.
Withdraw the entire contents of the efgartigimod; hyaluronidase vial using an 18 gauge stainless steel transfer needle attached to a polypropylene syringe.
Remove large air bubbles, if present.
Administer immediately after preparation.
Administration
Use vial with a winged infusion set only for subcutaneous administration. Administer using a winged infusion set made of polyvinyl chloride (PVC), 25 gauge, 12 inch tubing, that has a maximum priming volume of 0.4 mL.
Remove the transfer needle from the prepared syringe and connect the syringe to the winged infusion set.
Fill the tubing of the winged infusion set by gently pressing the syringe plunger until the plunger is at 5.6 mL. Solution should be present at the end of the winged infusion set needle.
Choose an injection site on the abdomen 2 to 3 inches away from the navel. Do not inject into areas where the skin is red, bruised, tender, hard, or where moles or scars are present. Rotate injection sites with each administration.
Pinch an area of skin and inject at a 45-degree angle subcutaneously over 30 to 90 seconds.
Monitor for signs and symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction for at least 30 minutes after administration. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, institute appropriate therapy.
Discard any unused portions of the vial, syringe, or infusion set in their appropriate disposal containers.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    For subcutaneous administration only.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase is a clear to opalescent, slightly yellow, solution. Do not use efgartigimod alfa; hyaluronidase if discoloration or particles are present.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1,008 mg/week efgartigimod alfa and 11,200 units/week hyaluronidase subcutaneously.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1,008 mg/week efgartigimod alfa and 11,200 units/week hyaluronidase subcutaneously.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Mild renal impairment (eGFR 60 to 89 mL/minute/1.73 m2): No dosage adjustments are needed.
Moderate (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2) and severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2): Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments are not available due to insufficient data.
