=== Atrasentan — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5598)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Atrasentan is an oral endothelin receptor antagonist indicated to reduce proteinuria in individuals with primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) at risk for rapid disease progression, generally a urine protein to creatinine ratio (UPCR) of 1.5 g/g or more.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 0.75 mg/day PO.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Obtain liver enzyme testing before initiating treatment with atrasentan and repeat during treatment as clinically indicated. In individuals with elevated aminotransferases at baseline [more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN)], consider periodic liver test monitoring.

ATRASENTAN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

VANRAFIA

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of primary immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy at risk of rapid disease progression, generally a urine protein to creatine ratio (UPCR) of 1.5 g/g or more, to reduce proteinuria

Oral dosage
Adults


0.75 mg PO once daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

hepatic failure


Do not initiate atrasentan in individuals with hepatic failure. Obtain liver enzyme testing before initiating treatment with atrasentan and repeat during treatment as clinically indicated. In individuals with elevated aminotransferases at baseline [more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN)], consider periodic liver test monitoring.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

embryo-fetal toxicity, people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Atrasentan may be associated with reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity. Exclude pregnancy before initiating atrasentan in people who may become pregnant. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception prior to initiation of treatment, during treatment, and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of atrasentan and to contact their health care provider immediately for pregnancy testing if the onset of menses is delayed or pregnancy is suspected. If pregnancy is confirmed, discuss the risks to the pregnancy and the fetus with the individual, and discontinue atrasentan as soon as possible. Additionally, atrasentan, similar to other endothelin receptor antagonists, may have an adverse effect on spermatogenesis. Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others about the potential effects of atrasentan on fertility.


pregnancy


Atrasentan is contraindicated during pregnancy. There are no available data on atrasentan use in human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Based on data from animal reproductive toxicity studies, atrasentan may cause fetal harm, including major birth defects and fetal death, when administered during pregnancy. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of atrasentan to pregnant rats and rabbits throughout organogenesis at doses that were below the maximum recommended human dose based on area under the curve caused teratogenic effects.


breast-feeding


Breast-feeding is not recommended during treatment with atrasentan due to the potential for adverse reactions, such as fluid retention in breastfed infants. There are no data on the presence of atrasentan in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effect on milk production.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Atrasentan is contraindicated during pregnancy. There are no available data on atrasentan use in human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Based on data from animal reproductive toxicity studies, atrasentan may cause fetal harm, including major birth defects and fetal death, when administered during pregnancy. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of atrasentan to pregnant rats and rabbits throughout organogenesis at doses that were below the maximum recommended human dose based on area under the curve caused teratogenic effects.


Interactions

Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and atazanavir due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and atazanavir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and atazanavir due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and atazanavir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and cobicistat due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and cobicistat due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and cyclosporine due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and cyclosporine is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Darolutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and darolutamide due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and darolutamide is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and cobicistat due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and cobicistat due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and elexacaftor due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and elexacaftor is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and cobicistat due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and cobicistat due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and cobicistat is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and enasidenib due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and enasidenib is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and encorafenib. Concomitant use may decrease atrasentan exposure, which may reduce its efficacy, or increase atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and erythromycin due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and erythromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and fostemsavir due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and fostemsavir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and glecaprevir due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and glecaprevir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and pibrentasvir due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and pibrentasvir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Leflunomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and leflunomide due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and leflunomide is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and leniolisib due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and leniolisib is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and letermovir due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and letermovir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Resmetirom: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and resmetirom due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and resmetirom is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and rifampin. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is CYP3A and OATP1B1/3 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and rilzabrutinib is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and velpatasvir due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and velpatasvir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and velpatasvir due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and velpatasvir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and voxilaprevir due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and voxilaprevir is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sparsentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and teriflunomide due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and teriflunomide is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased atrasentan exposure which may increase the risk for atrasentan-related adverse effects. Atrasentan is an OATP1B1/3 substrate and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B1/3 inhibitor increased atrasentan overall exposure by 3.8-fold.


Adverse Reaction
hypotension


Systolic and diastolic blood pressure both decreased by a mean of 4 mmHg from baseline in subjects receiving atrasentan during clinical trials. Hypotension observed in atrasentan-treated subjects was mild or moderate in severity, rarely symptomatic, and did not require treatment discontinuation.


fluid retention, peripheral edema


Peripheral edema was reported with atrasentan in 10% of subjects in clinical trials. Fluid retention may occur with endothelin receptor antagonists and has been observed with atrasentan in clinical trials. If clinically significant fluid retention develops, consider initiating or increasing diuretic treatment and interrupting atrasentan treatment. Atrasentan has not been evaluated in individuals with immunoglobulin A nepropathy (IgAN) and heart failure.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity


Asymptomatic and transient transaminase elevations have been observed with atrasentan. Elevated hepatic enzymes, defined as alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) concentrations more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), were reported with atrasentan in 2% of subjects in clinical trials. Monitor liver enzyme testing during atrasentan treatment as clinically indicated. If clinically relevant aminotransferase elevations occur, or if elevations are accompanied by an increase in bilirubin more than 2 times ULN, or by clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity, discontinue atrasentan. Consider re-initiation of atrasentan when hepatic enzyme concentrations normalize in individuals who have not experienced clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity or jaundice.


anemia


Anemia was reported with atrasentan in 6% of subjects in clinical trials. Hemoglobin decreased by a mean of 0.7 g/dL from baseline in subjects receiving atrasentan. The incidence of hemoglobin decrease more than 2 g/dL compared to baseline and below the lower limit of normal was greater for atrasentan-treated subjects (12%) compared to subjects given placebo (4%). Hemodilution is thought to contribute to the decrease in hemoglobin. There were no treatment discontinuations due to anemia or hemoglobin decrease in clinical trials.


spermatogenesis inhibition


Atrasentan, similar to other endothelin receptor antagonists, may cause spermatogenesis inhibition. Decreased sperm counts have been observed in some subjects with diabetic kidney disease receiving atrasentan with a return to normal concentrations within approximately 3 months after atrasentan discontinuation. This effect has not been studied in individuals with immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN).


teratogenesis


Based on data from animal reproduction studies, atrasentan may cause embryo-fetal toxicity and/or teratogenesis when administered to a pregnant individual. In pregnant rats, oral administration of atrasentan throughout organogenesis at doses of 0.1, 0.3, 1, and 3 mg/kg/day resulted in developmental abnormalities, primarily of the ear, lower jaw, or skull, in all tested groups with detectable plasma exposures to atrasentan. In pregnant rabbits, oral administration of atrasentan throughout organogenesis at doses of 0.1, 0.3, 1, and 3 mg/kg/day resulted in visceral malformations, including deformities in the cardiovascular system, at all doses tested. The lowest detectable plasma exposures to atrasentan were approximately 0.2 times the AUC at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). When atrasentan was administered pre- and postnatally in rats from gestation Day 15 through lactation Day 20 at doses of 1, 10 or 100 mg/kg/day, no adverse effects were observed at doses up to 10 mg/kg/day, which resulted in maternal exposure approximately 55 times the AUC at MRHD. However, exposure to atrasentan at a dose of 100 mg/kg/day increased pup mortality during the pre-weaning period and increased heart weight, which correlated histologically with myocardial hypertrophy.


Description

Atrasentan is an oral endothelin receptor antagonist indicated to reduce proteinuria in individuals with primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) at risk for rapid disease progression, generally a urine protein to creatinine ratio (UPCR) of 1.5 g/g or more. Atrasentan is approved for this indication under accelerated approval based on reduction of proteinuria. It has not yet been established if atrasentan slows kidney function decline in individuals with IgAN. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory clinical trial. Atrasentan is associated with elevated hepatic enzymes and peripheral edema as well as a risk of embryo-fetal toxicity. Atrasentan was FDA-approved in April 2025.

Mechanism Of Action

Atrasentan is an endothelin receptor antagonist that antagonizes the endothelin type A receptor (ETAR). Atrasentan has high affinity for the ETAR [inhibitory constant (Ki) = 0.034 nanometers (nM)] and more than 1,800-fold selectivity for these receptors over the endothelin type B receptors (ETBR) (inhibitory constant (Ki) = 63.3 nM). Endothelin-1 is thought to contribute to the pathogenesis of immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) by the ETAR.

Pharmacokinetics

Atrasentan is administered orally. Atrasentan is more than 99% bound to plasma protein in vitro. The apparent Vd of atrasentan at steady-state is 1,180 L. Atrasentan is extensively metabolized, approximately equivalently by CYP3A and via glucuronidation by multiple uridine 5'-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs). After a single dose of radiolabeled atrasentan 10 mg in healthy subjects, approximately 86% of the dose is recovered in feces (5.5% as parent atrasentan). Renal excretion was minimal, with less than 4% recovered in the urine (negligible amounts of parent atrasentan). The apparent clearance (CL/F) of atrasentan is 19 L/hour. The effective half-life of atrasentan is approximately 24 to 41 hours.
Pharmacodynamics
At the recommended dose, no statistically significant exposure-response relationship was identified between atrasentan exposure and the percentage reduction from baseline in urine protein to creatinine ratio (UPCR) at Week 36 over the observed atrasentan exposure range. Increased atrasentan exposure was associated with an increased incidence of anemia, but no association was observed between atrasentan exposure and hypotension or peripheral edema.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CPY3A, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, P-gp
Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate. In vitro, atrasentan is a CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP3A inhibitor and a CYP2B6 and CYP3A inducer, but it is not expected to cause clinically significant drug interactions with these CYP isoenzymes. Atrasentan is a substrate and inhibitor of P-gp, OATP1B1, and OATP1B3, but it is not expected to cause clinically significant drug interactions.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Across a dose range of 0.35 to 30 mg (0.47 to 40 times the approved recommended dosage), atrasentan AUC is dose proportional. Atrasentan time to peak plasma concentration (Tmax) is approximately 0.5 hours. Atrasentan steady-state concentrations are reached within 7 days with 2- to 3-fold accumulation. No clinically significant differences in atrasentan pharmacokinetics were observed after administration with a high-fat meal (800 to 1,000 kcal, more than 50% fat) in healthy subjects.

Hepatic Impairment

No clinically significant differences in atrasentan pharmacokinetics were observed based on mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or B). The effect of severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) on atrasentan pharmacokinetics is unknown.

Renal Impairment

No clinically significant differences in atrasentan pharmacokinetics were observed based on mild to severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 90 mL/minute/1.73 m2). The effect of end-stage renal disease (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2) on atrasentan pharmacokinetics is unknown.

Geriatric

No clinically significant differences in atrasentan pharmacokinetics were observed based on age (19 to 77 years).

Gender Differences

No clinically significant differences in atrasentan pharmacokinetics were observed based on sex.

Ethnic Differences

No clinically significant differences in atrasentan pharmacokinetics were observed based on race.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Swallow tablets whole. Do not cut, crush, or chew.
Administer with or without food.
Missed dose: If a dose or doses are missed, administer the prescribed atrasentan dose at the next scheduled time. Do not double the dose to make up for a missed dose.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

0.75 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

0.75 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

VANRAFIA 0.75mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Do not initiate atrasentan in individuals with severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier