=== Isosulfan Blue (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3532)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Isosulfan blue is a triphenylmethane-based dye used to directly visualize lymphatic vessels and nodes.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: Dosage Description

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, erythema, hypotension, hypoxia, injection site reaction, pruritus, rash, sinus tachycardia, urticaria, wheezing

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Isosulfan blue is a triphenylmethane-based dye. Isosulfan blue is contraindicated in patients with triphenylmethane hypersensitivity or hypersensitivity to related compounds.

Dosage Forms
  - Isosulfan blue 10mg/1mL Solution for injection
  - Isosulfan blue 10mg/1mL Solution for Injection, Prefilled Syringe

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for patients with primary or secondary lymphedema of the extremities, chyluria, chylous ascites, or chylothorax; and to evaluate the lymph node response to therapeutic modalities
      Routes
        Heading
        Subcutaneous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          0.5 mL subcutaneously into 3 interdigital spaces of each extremity per study. A maximum dose of 3 mL (30 mg) of isosulfan blue is injected.
      Heading
      for evaluation of lymph node involvement of primary or secondary neoplasm (i.e., sentinel lymph node mapping)
      Routes
        Heading
        Intradermal†, peritumoral†, or subdermal† dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults with breast cancer
          Dosage Description
          2 to 3 mL injected via intradermal†, peritumoral†, or subdermal† injection, approximately 3 to 5 minutes prior to making the surgical incision. When injecting peritumorally, injecting into each of the 4 quadrants surrounding the tumor has been recommended. Some authors recommend massaging the breast for up to 5 minutes after the dye is injected. After incision, the exposed surgical site can be visualized for blue-stained lymph nodes. Higher volumes of isosulfan blue (up to 10 mL) have also been used.
        Heading
        Intracervical dosage†
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults females with cervical cancer
          Dosage Description
          A volume of 2 to 4 mL injected directly into the cervix† in the 4 quadrants surrounding the tumor (12, 3, 6, and 9 o'clock position) has been suggested.
        Heading
        Peritumoral dosage†
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults with colon cancer
          Dosage Description
          After mobilization of the tumor within in the bowel, 0.25 to 5 mL is injected peritumorally†; injections should be circumferential (injected into each of the 4 quadrants around the tumor) and into the subserosal space, which optimizes sentinel lymph node identification. The colon should be inspected visually for blue-stained nodes, usually occurring within 5 to 10 minutes after injection. Unlike identification of other sentinel lymph nodes, some authors do not immediately excise blue-stained nodes, but rather mark them with sutures; the tumor and supporting mesentery are then resected after lymph node identification and marking. Sentinel lymph node mapping can also be accomplished after the colon is resected (i.e., ex vivo) or during laparoscopic colectomy. NOTE: The use of sentinel lymph node mapping with blue dye in patients with colon cancer is not routinely utilized as the predictive rate of nodal status is low. Large, randomized trials are needed to ascertain its place in the management of patients with colon cancer.
          Heading
          Adults with lung cancer
          Dosage Description
          After a thoracotomy, a volume of 0.5 to 2 mL injected peritumorally† has been suggested. After injection, the visceral pleura should be closely observed to identify blue-stained lymphatic channels leading to a sentinel node. This type of procedure is feasible, but can be challenging due to the difficulty of visualizing the blue dye within the anthoracotic lymph nodes within the thoracic cavity.
        Heading
        Intradermal dosage†
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults with melanoma
          Dosage Description
          A volume of 1 to 5 mL of isosulfan blue injected intradermally† around the primary melanoma site has been suggested; usually 1.5 to 2 mL of isosulfan blue is adequate. On average, the blue dye will stain the sentinel lymph node within 5 to 15 minutes after injection. NOTE: A similar method is used for other cutaneous cancers (e.g., head and neck, penile, and vulvar cancers), many of which are malignant melanoma.
        Heading
        Intramuscular dosage†
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adult females with uterine cancer
          Dosage Description
          A volume of 2 mL injected intramuscularly† into the uterine fundus after opening the abdomen has been suggested. The injection is divided between the mid-anterior, mid-posterior, and middle of the topmost surface sections of the fundus. Blue-stained lymph nodes can be identified within 5 to 10 minutes after injection.
    Routes
    Heading
    For use as an adjunct to lymphography for direct visualization of the lymphatic system draining the region of injection

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Isosulfan blue is a triphenylmethane-based dye. Isosulfan blue is contraindicated in patients with triphenylmethane hypersensitivity or hypersensitivity to related compounds. Cases of hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported by the manufacturer and in the literature. Patients that may be at increased risk for hypersensitivity-type reactions include those with a personal or family history of bronchial asthma, atopy, drug reactions, or previous hypersensitivity reactions to other triphenylmethane dyes. One retrospective report indicates that additional risk factors for hypersensitivity include the concurrent, chronic use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin II antagonists as well as injection of they dye into the vulvar area. Patients may become sensitized to isosulfan blue or other triphenylmethane-based dyes as they are used commonly in every day household items such as cosmetics, textiles, paints, inks, and leather. Although a patient may be sensitized to isosulfan blue, a positive skin test is not always evident. Because of the risks of severe adverse reactions, lymphography with isosulfan blue should be carried out under the direction of personnel with prerequisite training for and with a thorough knowledge of the procedure to be performed. Appropriate facilities should be available for coping with situations that may arise as a result of the procedure, as well as for emergency treatment of severe reactions to the drug. Furthermore, competent personnel and emergency facilities should be available for at least 30—60 minutes, since severe delayed reactions have been known to occur with similar compounds; because some adverse reactions may not resolve for up to 24 hours, and a second, delayed response after the initial has been reported, some authors recommend that patients with an adverse reaction to isosulfan blue be hospitalized for observation the night after surgery. The use of prophylactic steroids and antihistamines has been evaluated. The severity of the adverse reactions appear to improve with prophylactic measures; however, the incidence of reactions does not seem to be affected. Regimens studied include 100 mg IV hydrocortisone (or equivalent steroid), 50 mg IV diphenhydramine, and 20 mg IV famotidine administered just prior to or at the onset of anesthesia.Isosulfan blue is in FDA pregnancy risk category C. Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with isosulfan blue; it is also not known whether isosulfan blue can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or if it can affect reproductive capacity. Isosulfan blue should only be given to pregnant women if clearly needed.It is not known whether isosulfan blue is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are, caution should be exercised when isosulfan blue is administered to a woman who is breast-feeding her infant.Safety and effectiveness of isosulfan blue in children have not been established.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Isosulfan blue is also contraindicated in individuals with known hypersensitivity to triphenylmethane or related compounds.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Use isosulfan blue during pregnancy only if clearly needed. It is unknown whether isosulfan blue can cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy or if it can affect reproductive capacity. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with isosulfan blue.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    It is not known whether isosulfan blue is excreted in human milk. Because many medications are excreted in human milk, use caution when isosulfan blue is administered during breast-feeding.
    Headline
    asthma, atopy
    General Information
    Life-threatening anaphylactic reactions have occurred with isosulfan blue. Reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of bronchial asthma, allergies (atopy), drug reactions or previous reactions to triphenylmethane dyes. Monitor individuals closely for at least 60 minutes after administration of isosulfan blue. Trained personnel should be available to administer emergency care including resuscitation. A retrospective report indicates that additional risk factors for hypersensitivity include the concurrent, chronic use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin II antagonists as well as injection of the dye into the vulvar area. Individuals may become sensitized to isosulfan blue or other triphenylmethane-based dyes as they are used commonly in everyday household items such as cosmetics, textiles, paints, inks, and leather. Although an individual may be sensitized to isosulfan blue, a positive skin test is not always evident. Because of the risks of severe adverse reactions, lymphography with isosulfan blue should be carried out under the direction of personnel with prerequisite training for and with a thorough knowledge of the procedure to be performed. Because some adverse reactions may not resolve for up to 24 hours, and a second, delayed response after the initial has been reported, some experts recommend that individuals with an adverse reaction to isosulfan blue be hospitalized for observation the night after surgery.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Use isosulfan blue during pregnancy only if clearly needed. It is unknown whether isosulfan blue can cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy or if it can affect reproductive capacity. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with isosulfan blue.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    It is not known whether isosulfan blue is excreted in human milk. Because many medications are excreted in human milk, use caution when isosulfan blue is administered during breast-feeding.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of acyclovir and contrast agents should be avoided when possible, as use of these drugs together may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity.
Aldesleukin, IL-2: (Moderate) Monitor patients for delayed aldesleukin "recall" reactions in patients receiving iodinated contrast media after aldesleukin therapy. Symptom onset is typically from 1 to 4 hours after administration of iodinated contrast media and may resemble aldesleukin-related infusion reactions including fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, pruritus, rash, diarrhea, hypotension, edema, and oliguria. While most common when contrast media is given within 4 weeks of the last dose of aldesleukin, reports have also occurred when contrast media was administered several months after aldesleukin treatment.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
Amikacin: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycoside antibiotics, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible.
aMILoride: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Aminoglycosides: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycoside antibiotics, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Tricyclic antidepressants should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Amoxapine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amoxapine should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Amphetamine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Amphotericin B: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including amphotericin B, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible.
Angiotensin II: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Aripiprazole lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Asenapine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure. The frequency of seizure activity with asenapine was low during clinical trials; however, seizures have been associated with other antipsychotics and caution is advised.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure. (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Barium Sulfate: (Major) Delay the administration of non-ionic contrast media in patients who have recently received an oral cholecystographic contrast agent, such as barium. Renal toxicity has been reported in patients with liver dysfunction who were given an oral cholecystographic agent followed by intravascular iodinated contrast agents.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure. (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Benzphetamine: (Major) Sympathomimetics lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure. (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics such as brexpiprazole should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post procedure.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Bumetanide: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
buPROPion: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Bupropion should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Bupropion should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Caffeine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure. (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) Sodium oxybate lowers seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Capreomycin: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including capreomycin, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Captopril: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure. (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Tramadol lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Tricyclic antidepressants should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Chlorothiazide: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Chlorthalidone: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
CISplatin: (Moderate) Closely monitor renal function if concomitant use with cisplatin and non-ionic contrast media is necessary. Both drugs can cause nephrotoxicity, which may be additive when used together.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and clindamycin may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Tricyclic antidepressants should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
cloZAPine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold, such as cocaine, should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agentsl. While the contributory role of such medications has not been established, some physicians discontinue these drugs at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects. (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including colistimethate sodium, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Colistin: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including colistimethate sodium, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold, such as cyclobenzaprine, should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Cyclobenzaprine should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including cyclosporine, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, when possible, cyclosporine should be withheld during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Acute renal failure has been reported during treatment with deferasirox. Coadministration of deferasirox with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including radiopaque contrast agents, may increase the risk of this toxicity. Monitor serum creatinine and/or creatinine clearance in patients who are receiving deferasirox and nephrotoxic drugs concomitantly.
Desipramine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Tricyclic antidepressants should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Amphetamines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Bupropion should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold, such as diethylpropion, should be carefully evaluated when considering non-ionic contrast media. Such medications should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
DOPamine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Doxepin: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Tricyclic antidepressants should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Droxidopa: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure. (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Entecavir: (Moderate) Because entecavir is primarily eliminated by the kidneys and radiopaque contrast agents can affect renal function, concurrent administration with radiopaque contrast agents may increase the serum concentrations of entecavir and adverse events. The manufacturer of entecavir recommends monitoring for adverse effects when these drugs are coadministered.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
EPINEPHrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Fenofibrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenofibric Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure. (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Furosemide: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Gentamicin: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycoside antibiotics, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Haloperidol: (Major) Haloperidol lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure. (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Ibandronate: (Moderate) Theoretically, coadministration of intravenous ibandronate with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, such as radiopaque contrast agents, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Iloperidone: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure. Iloperidone has not been associated with seizure activity more frequently than placebo in clinical trials; however, lowering of the seizure threshold is generally a class effect among antipsychotics and caution is advised.
Imipramine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Tricyclic antidepressants should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold, such as lisdexamfetamine, should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure. (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Loop diuretics: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Loxapine: (Major) Loxapine lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Lurasidone: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
metFORMIN: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
Methamphetamine: (Major) Methamphetamine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Methylphenidate: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
metOLazone: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure. (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Midodrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Molindone: (Major) Molindone lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Tricyclic antidepressants should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
OLANZapine: (Major) Atypical antipsychotics may lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Atypical antipsychotics may lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Atypical antipsychotics may lower the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of oxaliplatin with non-ionic contrast media due to the risk of increased oxaliplatin-related adverse reactions. Non-ionic contrast media is known to be potentially nephrotoxic; because platinum-containing drugs like oxaliplatin are eliminated primarily through the kidney, oxaliplatin clearance may be decreased by coadministration with nephrotoxic agents.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Pamidronate: (Moderate) Coadministration of pamidronate with other nephrotoxic drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity following pamidronate administration, even in patients who have normal renal function.
Paromomycin: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycoside antibiotics, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Perphenazine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure. (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Tricyclic antidepressants should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Phendimetrazine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Phentermine: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Phentermine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Pimozide: (Major) Pimozide lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Major) Discontinue metformin at the time of, or before, administration of non-ionic contrast media to patients with an eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure, or who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Reevaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin if renal function is stable. Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis, possibly as a result of worsening renal function.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Plazomicin: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycoside antibiotics, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Promethazine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects. (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Protriptyline: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Tricyclic antidepressants should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Quetiapine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure. (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
risperiDONE: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Methylphenidate derivatives should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Major) Hold non-ionic contrast media agents for 2 months prior to sodium iodide I-131 administration. Use of non-ionic contrast media agents may alter thyroid uptake of sodium iodide I-131 and decrease its efficacy.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) Sodium oxybate lowers seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Spironolactone: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Streptomycin: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycoside antibiotics, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Thiazide diuretics: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Thioridazine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Thiothixene: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold, such as thiothixene, should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Timolol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering non-ionic contrast media to patients taking beta-blockers. Beta-blockers lower the threshold for and increase the severity of contrast reactions and reduce the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine.
Tobramycin: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycoside antibiotics, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity when given to patients receiving a contrast agents. When possible, withhold NSAID therapy during administration of a contrast agent.
Torsemide: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
traMADol: (Major) Tramadol lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Tramadol lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Triamterene: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Tricyclic antidepressants should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Phenothiazines should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours after the procedure.
Trimipramine: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering the use of intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Tricyclic antidepressants should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
valACYclovir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of valacyclovir and contrast agents should be avoided when possible, as use of these drugs together may increase the risk for nephrotoxicity.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Vasopressors: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and non-ionic contrast media may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold, such as ziprasidone, should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Zoledronic Acid: (Moderate) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of zoledronic acid with other nephrotoxic drugs, such as radiopaque contrast agents, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Per the manufacturer, isosulfan blue has an overall incidence of adverse reactions of 1.5%, with all of the reactions reported classified as hypersensitivity-type reactions. Additionally, severe allergic reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions, have been reported in the literature. As the use of isosulfan blue for sentinel lymph node diagnosis has become increasingly popular, higher rates of allergic reactions of 0.9—3% have been reported. Even if patients do not report a previous exposure to isosulfan blue, hypersensitivity reactions are possible as patients can be sensitized to triphenylmethane dyes because they are used commonly in every day household items such as cosmetics, textiles, paints, inks, and leather. In one retrospective study of 2392 patients undergoing sentinel lymph node mapping for breast cancer, the mean onset of hypersensitivity reactions was 44 minutes, with a range of 1—205 minutes; a similar study in patients undergoing sentinel lymph node mapping for various cancers reported onsets to hypersensitivity of 42 minutes, with a range of 1—180 minutes. The onset of hypotensive reactions is substantially quicker (14.4 minutes, with a range of 1—45 minutes). The duration of the hypersensitivity reaction has been reported to be as long as 24 hours, although the duration for most patients is typically < 3 hours. Additionally, biphasic reactions have been reported; in 3 patients, a second hypersensitivity reaction occurred 3—8 hours after the first. The mechanism of biphasic reactions is not known; however, it may be due to the slow release of isosulfan blue from lymphatic or subcutaneous tissue. Hypersensitivity type reactions that have been reported include injection site reaction (wheals and localized swelling at the site of injection), angioedema, generalized erythema, hypotension, hypoxia, pruritus, rash (unspecified), swelling of the eyelids, swelling of the lips, sinus tachycardia, urticaria (including blue-tinted urticaria or blue hives), and wheezing. Hypotensive reactions are less common than urticaria, rash (unspecified), or pruritus. Additionally, reports of mild to severe reactions have appeared in the literature for compounds similar to isosulfan blue. A death has been reported following the intravenous administration of a similar compound employed to estimate the depth of a severe burn. The allergic reactions of dyes may prove fatal unless promptly controlled by such emergency measures as maintenance of a clear airway and immediate use of oxygen and resuscitative drugs. For these reasons, systemic isosulfan blue dye should always be administered in a facility that has the personnel and equipment available for managing severe hypersensitivity type reactions. Furthermore, some authors recommend that in those patients that do experience an adverse reaction to isosulfan blue, consideration should be given to hospitalize the patient for observation the night after the procedure.Unexplained, factitious, oxygen desaturation measured by pulse oximetry sometimes accompanied with blue-green tinted skin has been reported within several minutes after isosulfan blue dye injection. In all cases, arterial blood gases have confirmed the inaccurate reading by the pulse oximeter. As long as 45 minutes may be required before pulse oximetry readings are in the normal range. Pulse oximetry determines oxygen saturation by measuring reduced serum hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin concentrations through absorption of light at 940 nm and 660 nm, respectively. Isosulfan blue absorbs light at 646 nm and depending on its concentration in the blood, may compete with the measurement of oxyhemoglobin causing falsely low pulse oximetry readings. It is imperative that health care providers are aware of this potential phenomena and that real vs. factitious pulse oximeter desaturations be confirmed via arterial blood gases in patients receiving isosulfan blue dye. Patients should be informed that blue-green urine discoloration, skin discoloration, or discoloration of other body fluids for up to 24 hours is possible.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Unexplained, factitious, oxygen desaturation measured by pulse oximetry sometimes accompanied with blue-green tinted skin has been reported within several minutes after isosulfan blue dye injection. In all cases, arterial blood gases have confirmed the inaccurate reading by the pulse oximeter. As long as 45 minutes may be required before pulse oximetry readings are in the normal range. Pulse oximetry determines oxygen saturation by measuring reduced serum hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin concentrations through absorption of light at 940 nm and 660 nm, respectively. Isosulfan blue absorbs light at 646 nm and depending on its concentration in the blood, may compete with the measurement of oxyhemoglobin causing falsely low pulse oximetry readings. It is imperative that health care providers are aware of this potential phenomena and that real vs. factitious pulse oximeter desaturations be confirmed via arterial blood gases in patients receiving isosulfan blue dye.
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, erythema, hypotension, hypoxia, injection site reaction, pruritus, rash, sinus tachycardia, urticaria, wheezing
    General Information
    Isosulfan blue has an overall incidence of adverse reactions of 1.5%, with all the reactions being of an allergic-type. Severe allergic reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions, have been reported in the literature at rates of 0.9% to 3%. Regardless of previous exposure to isosulfan blue, hypersensitivity reactions are possible as individuals can be sensitized to triphenylmethane dyes because they are used commonly in every day household items such as cosmetics, textiles, paints, inks, and leather. In a retrospective study of 2,392 subjects undergoing sentinel lymph node mapping for breast cancer, the mean onset of hypersensitivity reactions was 44 minutes, with a range of 1 to 205 minutes. A similar study in subjects undergoing sentinel lymph node mapping for various cancers reported onsets to hypersensitivity of 42 minutes, with a range of 1 to 180 minutes. The onset of hypotensive reactions is substantially quicker (14.4 minutes, with a range of 1 to 45 minutes). The duration of the hypersensitivity reaction has been reported to be as long as 24 hours, although the duration for most individuals is typically less than 3 hours. Biphasic reactions have been reported; in 3 subjects, a second hypersensitivity reaction occurred 3 to 8 hours after the first. The mechanism of biphasic reactions is not known, though it may be due to the slow release of isosulfan blue from lymphatic or subcutaneous tissue. Hypersensitivity-type reactions that have been reported with isosulfan blue include injection site reaction (wheals and localized swelling at the site of injection), angioedema, generalized erythema, hypotension, hypoxia, pruritus, rash, swelling of the eyelids, swelling of the lips, sinus tachycardia, urticaria (including blue-tinted urticaria or blue hives), and wheezing. Hypotensive reactions are less common than urticaria, rash, or pruritus. Allergic reactions to dyes may prove fatal unless promptly controlled by emergency measures such as maintenance of a clear airway and immediate use of oxygen and resuscitative drugs. For these reasons, systemic isosulfan blue dye should always be administered in a facility that has the personnel and equipment available for managing severe hypersensitivity-type reactions. Furthermore, in those individuals that do experience an adverse reaction to isosulfan blue, consider hospitalizing the individual for observation the night after the procedure.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypoxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    skin discoloration, urine discoloration
    General Information
    Blue-green urine discoloration, skin discoloration, or discoloration of other body fluids is possible for up to 24 hours after isosulfan blue administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urine discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      skin discoloration
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Isosulfan blue is a triphenylmethane-based dye used to directly visualize lymphatic vessels and nodes. It is commonly used either alone or in combination with technetium 99m sulfur colloid to localize sentinal nodes in various types of cancer such as breast and melanoma, most commonly, with cervical, colorectal, cutaneous, thoracic, and uterine cancers gaining popularity. The advantage of sentinel lymph node mapping is the avoidance of unnecessary lymph node dissection in patients with node-negative disease; lymph node dissection is associated with long-term risks such as lymphedema and sensory disturbances. Isosulfan blue is also used to identify lymphatic vessel leaks or lymphatic grafting in patients with lymphedema. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported with the use of isosulfan blue. The general population is frequently exposed to triphenylmethane dyes as they are commonly found in textiles, paper, paints, inks, cosmetics, and leather. As such, sensitization to triphenylmethane dyes can occur, although a positive skin test may not always be evident. In 2001, a shortage of isosulfan blue caused clinicians to use other dyes for sentinal lymph node diagnosis; several reports indicate that methylene blue is just as effective but cheaper and without the risk of anaphylaxis and hypersensitivity. Regardless, isosulfan blue is still a commonly used dye for sentinal lymph node localization. Isosulfan blue (Lymphazurin™) was approved by the FDA in July of 1981.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Isosulfan blue has no known pharmacologic action. Following subcutaneous injection, isosulfan blue binds to proteins, especially albumin, and is selectively picked up by the lymphatic vessels, which are delineated by a bright blue color making them discernible from surrounding tissues. The lymphatic vessels can then be visualized at surgical exposure. There is some evidence that as much as 50% of isosulfan blue, from aqueous solution, is weakly bound to serum proteins (albumin). Since interstitial protein is presumed to be carried almost exclusively by lymphatics, and in view of evidence of binding of dyes to proteins, visualization may be due a to protein binding phenomenon.
•Sentinal lymph node mapping: Isosulfan blue is injected close to the tumor where it is picked up by the lymphatic system. The sentinel lymph node, which is the lymph node draining the tumor, will become blue-stained and can be identified via direct visualization after surgical exposure; more than one lymph node may become blue stained. Once identified, the lymph node can be resected and biopsied to determine the extent of disease. Depending on the type of cancer, some authors recommend resecting all nodes that are blue-stained while others recommend removing only those that become blue-stained within a certain time period (e.g., within 10 minutes after dye injection).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Subcutaneous Route
    Description
    Isosulfan blue is a triphenylmethane-based dye. After a single 1 mL subcutaneous injection of a 1% solution by triphenylmethane dye in the rat, 34% is absorbed in 30 minutes from the injection site. Absorption of 69% and 100% occurs at 1 and 24 hours, respectively.
    Name
    Other Route(s)
    Description
    When Isosulfan blue is used in sentinel lymph node mapping, blue-stained nodes are typically seen within 5—15 minutes after injection.
  Text
  Isosulfan blue is administered subcutaneously and through various other routes that allow injection close to the lymphatic system draining tumors (e.g., intradermal, intracervical, intramuscular, peritumoral, and subdermal). Up to 10% of a subcutaneous dose is excreted unchanged in the urine in 24 hours. Presumably, 90% is excreted through the biliary route.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intramuscular Administration
      Description
      Inject directly into the uterine fundus after the abdomen is opened; use of a 25-gauge needle has been suggested.
In one report, the needle was inserted 5—10 mm into the uterine myometrium; the volume of isosulfan blue was divided between the mid-anterior, mid-posterior, and the middle of the topmost surface of the fundus.
      Name
      Subcutaneous Administration
      Description
      Administer isosulfan blue subcutaneously into 3 interdigital spaces of each extremity.
      Name
      Other Injectable Administration
      Description
      Intracervical Administration†
Isosulfan blue injections should be made directly into the cervix; a 25-gauge spinal needle has been suggested.
After the patient is under anesthesia, use a speculum to inspect the cervix for the location of the tumor.
The dye should be injected circumferentially in the 4 quadrants around the tumor at the 3, 6, 9, and 12 o'clock positions. Injecting the dye into the mucosa and the cervical stroma (5—10 mm) midway between the cervical os and the rim of the exocervix has been suggested.
 
Intradermal Administration†
Intradermal administration of isosulfan blue is used to visualize lymph nodes in various types of cancer including breast, melanoma, and other cutaneous cancers (e.g., head and neck, penile, and vulvar).
To visualize lymph nodes in patients with melanoma or other cutaneous cancers, inject intradermally around the primary tumor.
For visualization of the lymph nodes in patients with breast cancer, inject intradermally into the skin directly over the tumor. Another report recommends injecting the dye intradermally into the lateral border of the areola.
 
Peritumoral Administration†
Peritumoral administration of isosulfan blue is used to visualize lymph nodes in various types of cancers including colon, lung, and breast cancer.
To visualize lymph nodes in the colon, the affected section of the colon should first be mobilized. Then, inject circumferentially (injected into the 4 quadrants around the tumor) and into the subserosal surface of the bowel that is adjacent to the base of the tumor; 22-gauge, 25-gauge, and 30-gauge needles have been suggested. Avoid spillage of the dye in the adjacent mesentery as well as injection of dye into the lumen.
To visualize lymph nodes in the thoracic cavity, inject peritumorally after location of the tumors via palpitation within the open chest cavity is confirmed.
To visualize lymph nodes in patients with breast cancer, inject into the breast parenchyma that surrounds the primary tumor; some authors have suggested an injection in each of the 4 quadrants that surround the tumor. If the patient has had a prior excision of the tumor for biopsy, the dye can be injected around the biopsy cavity.
 
Subdermal Administration†
To visualize lymph nodes in patients with breast cancer, one author suggests injecting isosulfan blue subdermally into the subareolar space starting at the 6 o'clock position; distribution of the dye can be accomplished by giving multiple injections forming a semicircle around the areola. If a previous incision and scar are present, the initial injection site should be opposite of the incision.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Administer via intracervical†, intradermal†, intramuscular†, peritumoral†, subdermal†, or subcutaneous injection.
Do not administer isosulfan blue and local anesthetics in the same syringe.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Text
  Specific maximum dosage information is not available.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustment in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustment in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
