=== Pasireotide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3793)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Pasireotide is a somatostatin analog.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 1.8 mg/day subcutaneously for regular-release injection (Signifor). For long acting injection (Signifor LAR): 40 mg IM every 4 weeks IM for Cushing's disease and 60 mg IM every 4 weeks for acromegaly.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): diabetes mellitus, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperglycemia, steatorrhea, weight loss, cholelithiasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperamylasemia, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, pancreatitis, pruritus, av block, bradycardia, dizziness, hypokalemia, qt prolongation, vertigo, adrenocortical insufficiency, alopecia, arthralgia, asthenia, back pain, fatigue, headache, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, hypotension, myalgia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Avoid the use of pasireotide in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

Brand Names
  - Signifor
  - Signifor LAR

Dosage Forms
  - SIGNIFOR 0.3mg/mL Solution for Injection
  - SIGNIFOR 0.6mg/mL Solution for Injection
  - SIGNIFOR 0.9mg/mL Solution for Injection
  - SIGNIFOR LAR 10mg Powder for Injection
  - SIGNIFOR LAR 20mg Powder for Injection
  - SIGNIFOR LAR 30mg Powder for Injection
  - SIGNIFOR LAR 40mg Powder for Injection
  - SIGNIFOR LAR 60mg Powder for Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Initially, 0.6 mg to 0.9 mg subcutaneously twice daily; titrate dose in 0.3-mg increments based on response and tolerability within the recommended range of 0.3 mg to 0.9 mg subcutaneously twice daily. Response is defined as a clinically meaningful reduction in 24-hour urinary free cortisol concentrations and/or disease sign and/or symptom improvement. The maximum urinary free cortisol reduction is usually seen by month 2 of pasireotide receipt.
      Heading
      Intramuscular dosage (Signifor LAR)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 mg IM once every 4 weeks (every 28 days) initially. May increase in patients who have not normalized 24-hour urinary free cortisol (UFC) after 4 months of treatment with the 10 mg/month dose and who tolerate this dose. Max: 40 mg IM once every 28 days. Dose reduction, dose interruption, or drug discontinuation may be required in individuals experiencing adverse reactions or who over-respond to treatment (e.g., cortisol levels less than the lower limit of normal or in the low part of the normal range with symptoms suggestive of adrenal insufficiency). If an individual is receiving 10 mg once every 28 days, the dose may be either interrupted or discontinued. In a phase 3, year-long double-blind randomized clinical trial in 150 individuals with persistent, recurrent, or newly diagnosed Cushing disease, this drug regimen was effective; the primary endpoint of attaining a mean UFC within normal limits at month 7, regardless of dose titration at month 4, was met by more than 40% of individuals. Clinical benefits, as measured by objective improvements in the signs and symptoms of disease, were observed at month 7 and continued through the end of the trial.
    Heading
    For the treatment of Cushing syndrome in individuals for whom pituitary surgery is not an option or has not been curative
    Routes
      Heading
      Intramuscular dosage (suspension for injection)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        40 mg IM every 4 weeks for 3 months, initially. Adjust dose by 20 mg/dose based on serum growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) concentrations and clinical response. Max: 60 mg IM every 4 weeks.
    Heading
    For the treatment of acromegaly in individuals who have had an inadequate response to and/or cannot be treated with surgery
    Routes
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        900 mcg subcutaneously twice daily beginning the morning of surgery and continuing for 7 days.
    Heading
    For the prevention of postoperative pancreatic fistula†, leak, or abscess in patients undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy or distal pancreatectomy

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Avoid the use of pasireotide in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. Further, pasireotide dosage reduction is needed for people with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment. Pasireotide is mainly eliminated by biliary excretion. Further, pasireotide may cause elevated bilirubin and increased hepatic transaminase concentrations. Determine baseline liver function tests (LFTs) before starting pasireotide, after 1 to 2 weeks on treatment for subcutaneous pasireotide and after 2 to 3 weeks for the monthly long-acting pasireotide injection. LFTs should be repeated monthly for 3 months (for both the regular release and the long-acting pasireotide). After 3 months, patients receiving regular-release pasireotide should have LFTs performed every 6 months and patients receiving long-acting pasireotide should have liver function tests performed as clinically indicated. Treatment should be discontinued if signs or symptoms suggestive of clinically significant liver impairment develop.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Use pasireotide with caution in individuals with pre-existing diabetes mellitus, especially when treatment is initiated or when the dosage is adjusted. Determine the fasting plasma glucose concentration or A1C of all individuals before pasireotide initiation. Start intensive medical therapy for diabetes before starting pasireotide in individuals with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus. Assess blood glucose or fasting plasma glucose weekly for the first 2 to 3 months and periodically thereafter, as needed. Individuals receiving long-acting pasireotide will also require assessments of blood glucose or fasting plasma glucose weekly for the first 4 to 6 weeks after dose increases. Individuals who develop significant hyperglycemia may require initiation of antidiabetic therapy(ies) or adjustment in the dose or type of antidiabetic therapy(ies) per standard of care. The optimal treatment for the management of pasireotide-induced hyperglycemia is not known. Individuals with Cushing's disease and poor glycemic control (defined as an A1C greater than 8%) despite medicines for diabetes may be at a higher risk of severe hyperglycemia and associated complications such as diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). Individuals with poor baseline glycemic control are at higher risk of developing severe hyperglycemia. If hyperglycemia cannot be controlled despite medical management, the dose of pasireotide should be reduced or discontinued. After treatment discontinuation, assess fasting plasma glucose and A1C if indicated. Individuals who are taking antidiabetic therapy who discontinue pasireotide may require more frequent blood glucose monitoring and drug therapy dose adjustment to mitigate the risk of hypoglycemia.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiac disease, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use pasireotide with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. In addition to QT prolongation, bradycardia has been reported with pasireotide use. Carefully monitor pasireotide recipients with cardiac disease and/or risk factors for bradycardia such as a history of clinically significant bradycardia and high-grade AV block. Obtain a baseline ECG before pasireotide administration and have a baseline evaluation of serum potassium and magnesium levels prior to initiation of therapy. Individuals receiving long acting pasireotide and who are at risk for QT prolongation should be monitored for an effect on the QT interval at the time of maximum drug concentration (21 days after injection).
    Headline
    gallbladder disease
    General Information
    Patients receiving pasireotide should have a baseline gallbladder ultrasound to detect any pre-existing gallbladder disease. Pasireotide may reduce gallbladder motility and cause or exacerbate gallstone formation. Individuals should be monitored periodically. If complications of cholelithiasis are suspected, discontinue pasireotide and treat appropriately.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    The limited data on pasireotide in pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage during pregnancy; however, animal studies show evidence of fetal harm. Increased implantation loss and decreased viable fetuses, corpora lutea, and implantation sites were noted in rats exposed to less than the human clinical exposure based on body surface area comparisons across species.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with pasireotide. Premenopausal individuals may be at risk of unintended pregnancy as the therapeutic benefits of a reduction or normalization of serum cortisol levels in individuals with Cushing's disease treated with pasireotide may lead to improved fertility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use pasireotide with caution during breast-feeding. There is no information available regarding the presence of pasireotide in human milk, the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant, or the effects of the drug on milk production. Pasireotide has a high molecular weight and is likely to be minimally excreted into breast milk; as a peptide, it is likely to be digested in the infant's gastrointestinal tract. It is unlikely to reach clinically significant concentrations in infant serum. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    The limited data on pasireotide in pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage during pregnancy; however, animal studies show evidence of fetal harm. Increased implantation loss and decreased viable fetuses, corpora lutea, and implantation sites were noted in rats exposed to less than the human clinical exposure based on body surface area comparisons across species.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use pasireotide with caution during breast-feeding. There is no information available regarding the presence of pasireotide in human milk, the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant, or the effects of the drug on milk production. Pasireotide has a high molecular weight and is likely to be minimally excreted into breast milk; as a peptide, it is likely to be digested in the infant's gastrointestinal tract. It is unlikely to reach clinically significant concentrations in infant serum. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated maternal condition.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Acebutolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with pasireotide due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when amisulpride is administered with pasireotide. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
amLODIPine: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary. (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Cautious use of pasireotide and clarithromycin is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Anagrelide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include pasireotide.
Antidiabetic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and pasireotide together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and arsenic trioxide is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. If possible, drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval, such as pasireotide, should be discontinued prior to initiating arsenic trioxide therapy. QT prolongation should be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and complete atrioventricular block have been reported.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Coadministration of artemether; lumefantrine and pasireotide may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if pasireotide must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Asenapine: (Major) Coadministration of asenapine and pasireotide may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect.
Atenolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary. (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of pasireotide and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and bedaquiline is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. Bedaquiline has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Betaxolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bisoprolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary. (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients taking bromocriptine for diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and loop diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of pasireotide and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of pasireotide and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Carteolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Carvedilol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with pasireotide if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib causes concentration-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Pasireotide is also associated with QT prolongation; coadministration may have additive effects.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with pasireotide due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and chlorpromazine is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), use of pasireotide and cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Coadministration of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of pasireotide and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Cautious use of pasireotide and clarithromycin is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Clevidipine: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with clozapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with pasireotide due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Pasireotide and cyclosporine coadministration may decrease the relative bioavailability of cyclosporine. Patients taking both of these drugs should have their cyclosporine concentrations monitored; if needed, adjust the cyclosporine dosage to maintain therapeutic concentrations.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of dasatinib and pasireotide. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Desflurane: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics, is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supratherapeutic doses. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Cautious use of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Disopyramide: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and disopyramide is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and pasireotide is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Use donepezil with caution in combination with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Use donepezil with caution in combination with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), use of pasireotide and dronedarone is contraindicated. Coadministration of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce TdP and is contraindicated.
droPERidol: (Major) Coadministration of droperidol and pasireotide may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving other agents that may prolong the QT interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). In December 2001, the FDA issued a black box warning regarding the use of droperidol and its association with QT prolongation and potential for cardiac arrhythmias based on post-marketing surveillance data. According to the revised 2001 labeling for droperidol, any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with eliglustat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and pasireotide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Encorafenib is associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with pasireotide due to the risk of QT prolongation. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
eriBULin: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and pasireotide must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of pasireotide and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of escitalopram and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Esmolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and loop diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Felodipine: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with fingolimod as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of pasireotide and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluconazole and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with fluphenazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with fluvoxamine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported during fluvoxamine post-marketing use.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as pasireotide. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pasireotide may also prolong the QT interval. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and loop diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Gallium Ga 68 Dotatate: (Moderate) Image patients with gallium Ga 68 dotatate just prior to dosing with non-radioactive, long-acting somatostatin analogs. Short-acting analogs of somatostatin can be used up to 24 hours before imaging with gallium Ga 68 dotatate. These drugs may competitively bind to the same somatostatin receptors.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with gemifloxacin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and pasireotide together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and pasireotide is necessary. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with pasireotide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Use granisetron with caution in combination with pasireotide due to increased risk for QT prolongation. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics, is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with haloperidol as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of pasireotide and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and ibutilide is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Iloperidone: (Major) Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; however, torsade de pointes (TdP) has not been reported. According to the manufacturer, since iloperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as pasireotide.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with pasireotide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Isoflurane: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics, is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Isradipine: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with itraconazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with pasireotide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pasireotide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Labetalol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Landiolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Cautious use of pasireotide and clarithromycin is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if lapatinib is administered with pasireotide. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with pasireotide due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Prolongation of the QT interval has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Levamlodipine: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Levobunolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pasireotide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lithium and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor ECG if lofexidine is coadministered with pasireotide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and loop diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with pasireotide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supratherapeutic doses.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as pasireotide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with mefloquine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Methadone: (Major) The need to coadminister methadone with pasireotide should be done with extreme caution and a careful assessment of treatment risks versus benefits, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. At high doses, methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses averaging approximately 400 mg/day.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Metoprolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary. (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midostaurin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and pasireotide may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring. Obtain a baseline ECG prior to starting pasireotide and perform serum electrolyte monitoring; patients receiving long-acting pasireotide who are at risk for QT prolongation should also be monitored for an effect on the QT interval at the time of maximum drug concentration (21 days after injection). In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received pasireotide.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of pasireotide and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) According to the manufacturer, moxifloxacin should be avoided in patients taking drugs that can result in prolongation of the QT interval, such as pasireotide, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with administration of moxifloxacin. Post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including torsade de pointes (TdP), usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded.
Nadolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Nebivolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
NiCARdipine: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
NIFEdipine: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and pasireotide; significant prolongation of the QT interval may occur. Sudden death and QT prolongation have been reported in patients who received nilotinib therapy. QT prolongation has occurred with therapeutic and subtherapeutic doses of pasireotide.
niMODipine: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with olanzapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with olanzapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with olanzapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary. (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of pasireotide and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pasireotide with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. QT prolongation has also occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor electrolytes and ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of pasireotide with oxaliplatin is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking pasireotide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as pasireotide. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. If coadministration is necessary, closely monitor patients with known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias.
Panobinostat: (Major) QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with panobinostat include pasireotide.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of pazopanib and pasireotide is not advised, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. If pazopanib and pasireotide must be continued, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Pentamidine: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and pentamidine is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with perphenazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with perphenazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as pasireotide. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), use of pasireotide and pimozide is contraindicated. Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Pindolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking pasireotide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with posaconazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Procainamide: (Major) Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Cautious use of pasireotide and pasireotide is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with prochlorperazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propranolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Cautious use of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
quiNINE: (Major) Concurrent use of quinine and pasireotide should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinine has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of TdP. Pasireotide may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with ranolazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval such as relugolix. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval such as relugolix. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with pasireotide due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Pasireotide has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with pasireotide due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Pasireotide has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Use risperidone and pasireotide together with caution due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Saquinavir: (Major) Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes (TdP). Avoid administering saquinavir boosted with ritonavir concurrently with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as pasireotide. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of selpercatinib with pasireotide is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sertraline and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics, is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving pasireotide due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with solifenacin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality was not determined.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with pasireotide due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Sorafenib is also associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. Sotalol administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Proarrhythmic events should be anticipated after initiation of therapy and after each upward dosage adjustment. In addition, pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if sunitinib is administered with pasireotide. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Consider ECG and electrolyte monitoring periodically during treatment if tacrolimus is administered with pasireotide. Tacrolimus may prolong the QT interval and cause torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc) and should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with pasireotide as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), use of pasireotide and thioridazine is contraindicated. Thioridazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated for use with other drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval. Coadministration of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Timolol: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as beta-blockers. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers may be necessary.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with tolterodine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pasireotide with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Prolongation of the QT interval has also occurred with pasireotide therapy at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and loop diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with trifluoperazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Trifluoperazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with pasireotide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation of the QT interval has also occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. If vemurafenib and pasireotide must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider interventions to minimize the risk of progression to torsades de pointes (TdP), such as ECG monitoring and correcting electrolyte abnormalities, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Cautious use of pasireotide and clarithromycin is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with voriconazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Voriconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsades de pointes.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and pasireotide should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Pasireotide may induce hyperglycemia, and, in some patients, diabetes mellitus. Nearly all patients with Cushing's disease developed worsening glycemia in the first 2 weeks of pasireotide receipt; the trial included patients with normal glucose status at baseline, as well as patients with pre-diabetes and diabetes. Increases in fasting plasma glucose and A1C were noted soon after pasireotide administration and were sustained during the treatment period. Among 162 patients who received pasireotide 0.6 or 0.9 mg subcutaneously twice daily, 13% experienced grade 3 or 4 hyperglycemia, 27% had grade 1 or 2 hyperglycemia, and 6% had increased blood glucose concentrations. Among the treated patients, 7% had grade 3 or 4 diabetes mellitus, 11% had grade 1 or 2 diabetes mellitus, 4% had grade 3 or 4 type 2 diabetes mellitus, 5% had grade 1 or 2 type 2 diabetes mellitus. The A1C also increased; 1% had a grade 3 or 4 increase in A1C, and 10% had a grade 1 or 2 increase in A1C. The mean A1C increased from 5.8% at baseline to 7.2% to 7.3% at month 6. The mean fasting plasma glucose concentrations went from 97 to 98.6 mg/dL at baseline to 125.1 to 128 mg/dL at month 6. One month after pasireotide discontinuation, mean fasting plasma glucose and A1C concentrations decreased but remained above baseline concentrations. Determine the fasting plasma glucose or A1C before pasireotide initiation. Long-acting pasireotide can cause increases in blood glucose levels which are sometimes severe. In the clinical development program, treatment with long-acting pasireotide caused an increase in the incidence of diabetes mellitus and pre-diabetes. A majority of patients, including those with normal glucose tolerance, pre-diabetes and diabetes experienced increased glucose levels within the first 2 to 3 months of treatment with long-acting pasireotide. A few patients have experienced hospitalization and diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). In the acromegalic patient study, 5 patients naive to drug therapy treated with long-acting pasireotide (2 of whom were normoglycemic at baseline), and none in the active comparator group were hospitalized for hyperglycemia (blood glucose = 359 mg/dL to 506 mg/dL). Two additional patients who had received active comparator in the main trial and were switched to long-acting pasireotide in the extension trial were hospitalized for elevated glucose levels while on long-acting pasireotide; 1 of those patients developed diabetic ketoacidosis. In the Cushing's disease study, 2 patients were hospitalized for elevated blood glucose. In the drug-naive acromegaly trial, the prevalence of diabetes increased from 30% at baseline to 60% at month 12. Hyperglycemia (29%), diabetes mellitus (26%), increased blood glucose (8%), impaired glucose tolerance (1%) and increased A1C (6%) were reported in patients who did not have these conditions present at baseline or, if present, worsened from baseline. In the trial evaluating acromegaly patients previously treated with somatostatin analogs, the prevalence of diabetes increased from 71% at baseline to 87% at month 6 in patients treated with long-acting pasireotide 40 mg/month and from 60% to 84% in patients treated with long-acting pasireotide 60 mg/month. Hyperglycemia (30% to 33%), diabetes mellitus (21% to 31%), impaired glucose tolerance (3% to 5%), and increased blood glucose (5% to 7%) were reported in patients who did not have these conditions present at baseline or, if present, worsened from baseline. In the Cushing's disease study, the prevalence of diabetes increased from 40% at baseline to 56% at Month 12, and the following adverse events were reported in at least 5% of patients receiving long-acting pasireotide: hyperglycemia (47%), diabetes mellitus (27%), increased blood glucose (9%), increased A1C (5%). Impaired glucose tolerance was reported in 3% of patients. Initiate intensive medication therapy for patients with uncontrolled diabetes, as patients with A1C greater than 8% may be at a higher risk of developing severe hyperglycemia and associated complications such as ketoacidosis. Instruct the patient to check blood glucose or fasting plasma glucose every week for the first 2 to 3 months and periodically thereafter. Patients receiving long-acting pasireotide will also require assessments of blood glucose or fasting plasma glucose weekly for the first 4 to 6 weeks after dose increases. If hyperglycemia develops in a patient, initiate or adjust treatment for diabetes as per standard of care; the optimal treatment for pasireotide-induced hyperglycemia is unknown. If uncontrolled hyperglycemia persists despite appropriate medical management, reduce the pasireotide dose or discontinue the drug. Patients on antidiabetic therapy discontinuing the drug may require more frequent blood glucose monitoring and adjustment of their antidiabetic treatment to mitigate the risk of hypoglycemia. Patients who present with signs and symptoms consistent with severe metabolic acidosis should be assessed for ketoacidosis regardless of diabetes history. In some reported postmarketing cases of ketoacidosis in patients taking long-acting pasireotide, factors predisposing to ketoacidosis such as acute illness, infectious disease events, pancreatic disorders (e.g. pancreatic malignancy or pancreatic surgery), and alcohol abuse were present. If ketoacidosis is suspected, discontinue pasireotide and promptly evaluate and treat the patient.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diabetes mellitus
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diabetic ketoacidosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, flatulence, nausea, steatorrhea, vomiting, weight loss
    General Information
    Pasireotide frequently causes gastrointestinal (GI) related side effects. Among 162 pasireotide receiving twice daily doses of 0.6 mg or 0.9 mg subcutaneously, 3% had grade 3 or 4 and 55% had grade 1 or 2 diarrhea, 10% had anorexia, and 45% to 55% had grade 1 or 2 nausea, 1% to 4% experienced grade 3 or 4 nausea, and 4% to 10% of patients experienced vomiting. Higher rates of nausea and vomiting occurred with the 0.9-mg dosing regimen. Abdominal pain was reported; 2% or patients experienced grade 3 or 4 and 22% grade 1 or 2 abdominal pain; 10% of patients reported upper abdominal pain. Constipation occurred in 5% to 9% of patients. Nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea primarily began to develop during the first month of pasireotide receipt and usually required no intervention. However, nausea and other GI symptoms may also be symptoms of hypocortisolism; pasireotide leads to suppression of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion in Cushing's disease and may lead to reduced cortisol concentrations. If hypocortisolism occurs, consider temporary pasireotide dose reduction or interruption, as well as temporary, exogenous glucocorticoid replacement therapy. Diarrhea (16% to 39%), nausea (3% to 14%), vomiting (8%), abdominal pain (8% to 18%), abdominal distention (12%), upper abdominal pain (6%), and weight loss (5%) have been reported in acromegaly patients receiving long-acting pasireotide injection. In a clinical study of patients with Cushing's disease, the following GI adverse events were reported in at least 5% of patients receiving long-acting pasireotide injection monthly: abdominal pain (23%), diarrhea (39%), nausea (21%), constipation (7%), abdominal distension (5%), flatulence (5%), vomiting (5%), and decreased appetite (10%). Steatorrhea and pancreatic exocrine insufficiency have been reported with pasireotide use. If new or worsening symptoms of steatorrhea, loose stools, abdominal bloating, or weight loss occur, evaluate patients for potential pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and manage accordingly.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      steatorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cholelithiasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperamylasemia, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, pancreatitis, pruritus
    General Information
    Pasireotide may affect the liver, gallbladder, or pancreas. The drug is primarily eliminated by biliary excretion. In a clinical study of patients with Cushing's disease, the following adverse events were reported in at least 5% of patients receiving long-acting pasireotide injection once monthly: increased gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) (9%), and increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (7%). Other adverse reactions which occurred at a frequency less than 5% were: cholestasis (4%), increased aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (3%), increased lipase (3%), cholecystitis (1%), hyperamylasemia (1%), and prolonged prothrombin time (PT) (1%). Cholelithiasis was reported in 10% to 33% of acromegaly patients and 33% of Cushing's patients receiving long-acting pasireotide injection. Elevated hepatic enzymes were usually transient. Overall, in both phase 3 studies and across all doses, an ALT or AST elevation more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) was observed in 3% of patients and ALT or AST elevation more than 5 times the ULN was observed in 1% of acromegaly patients treated with long-acting pasireotide. In patients with acromegaly, increased ALT (8%), increased AST (6%), and increased blood creatine phosphokinase (CPK) (13%) were reported. In the Phase 3 Cushing's Disease study and across all doses, ALT or AST elevations greater than 3 times the ULN were observed in 14% of patients and ALT or AST elevations greater than 5 times the ULN were observed in 5% of patients treated with long-acting pasireotide. Of the 162 patients receiving pasireotide subcutaneous injections twice daily, 4% had grade 3 or 4 and 6% had grade 1 or 2 increased GGT, 2% had a prolonged PT, 2% had grade 3 or 4 and 8% had grade 1 or 2 increased ALT, and 6% had increased AST. An ALT or AST greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal was noted in 5% of patients. Mean LFT concentrations returned to baseline values by month 4 of pasireotide receipt, and the elevations were not usually associated with clinical symptoms of hepatic disease. In the clinical development program, 1 of 4 patients with concurrent elevations in ALT greater than 3 times the ULN and hyperbilirubinemia greater than 2 times the ULN developed jaundice; the elevations were noted within the first 10 days of pasireotide use, and the total bilirubin elevations were seen either concomitantly or preceding the transaminase elevation. Pasireotide discontinuation led to laboratory abnormality resolution in all patients. Cholelithiasis was a commonly reported event (30% of patients; 1% had grade 3 or 4, 29% had grade 1 or 2 cholelithiasis); 8% of patients experienced pruritus. Among 162 regular-release pasireotide recipients, 7% had increased lipase and 2% had hyperamylasemia. Asymptomatic and reversible elevations in lipase and amylase were noted in clinical trials. Asymptomatic, elevations in lipase and alpha amylase (20% to 30%) were observed in acromegaly patients receiving long-acting pasireotide. Hyperamylasemia (2%) was reported in acromegaly patients receiving long-acting pasireotide. Pancreatitis is a potential adverse reaction of pasireotide, as there is an association between cholelithiasis and pancreatitis. Pancreatitis (less than 1%) was reported in acromegaly patients receiving long-acting pasireotide. In the Cushing's disease study for long-acting pasireotide injection, increased lipase was observed in 4% of patients, and 1 patient developed pancreatitis. Ultrasonic examination of the gallbladder is recommended at baseline and at 6- to 12-month intervals during pasireotide receipt. Determination of liver function tests (LFTs) is advised before pasireotide administration, after 1 to 2 weeks on treatment for the regular release pasireotide and after 2 to 3 weeks for the long-acting pasireotide. Tests should be repeated monthly for 3 months (for both the subcutaneous and the long-acting pasireotide injections). After 3 months, patients receiving subcutaneous pasireotide twice daily should have LFTs performed every 6 months and patients receiving long-acting pasireotide should have LFTs performed as clinically indicated.  For patients who develop LFT abnormalities, follow the recommended monitoring for the specific dosasge form, based on the degree of abnormality noted. Discontinue treatment with pasireotide if signs or symptoms suggestive of clinically significant hepatic impairment develop. Following discontinuation of treatment, monitor patients until resolution. If resolution of abnormalities to normal or near normal occurs AND another likely cause for the abnormalities has been discovered, consider cautious pasireotide resumption and closely observe the patient. Do not restart pasireotide treatment if the liver function abnormalities were suspected to be related to pasireotide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholelithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperamylasemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    AV block, bradycardia, dizziness, hypokalemia, QT prolongation, vertigo
    General Information
    Cardiovascular-related adverse events were reported during pasireotide treatment during clinical trials. During clinical trials with subcutaneous pasireotide injections twice daily (n = 162), dizziness was noted in 9%, and vertigo, bradycardia, hypokalemia, and QT prolongation were each noted in 6% of treated patients. After a 0.6 mg twice daily dose to healthy patients, the maximum mean placebo subtracted change from baseline for QTc was 12.7 ms and for heart rate was a reduction of 10.9 beats per minute (bpm), which was noted 1.5 hours after the dose. Bradycardia (including sinus bradycardia) (10%), QT prolongation (4%), first degree AV block (6%), and dizziness (2% to 10%) were noted in acromegaly patients receiving long-acting pasireotide injection once monthly. In a clinical study for Cushing's disease, sinus bradycardia (5%) and ECG QT prolongation (1%) were reported in patients receiving long-acting pasireotide once monthly. In these clinical studies for the monthly long-acting pasireotide injection, a corrected QT interval (i.e., QTcF) of greater than 480 ms was reported in 4 patients and an increase in the QTcF from baseline of greater than 60 milliseconds (ms) was reported for 2 patients on active treatment. No patient in a long-acting pasireotide arm had a QTcF value greater than 500 ms. Obtain a baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) before pasireotide initiation and monitor for an effect on the QTc interval. Patients receiving long-acting pasireotide injection once monthly and who are at risk for prolongation of the QT interval should also be monitored for an effect on the QT interval at the time of maximum drug concentration (21 days after injection). In addition, correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide administration, and periodically monitor these electrolytes during pasireotide therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      AV block
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    adrenocortical insufficiency, alopecia, arthralgia, asthenia, back pain, fatigue, headache, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, hypotension, myalgia, weakness
    General Information
    During clinical trials for pasireotide subcutaneous injection, patients commonly reported headache (2% had grade 3 or 4 headache, 24% had grade 1 or 2 headache). Headaches were also reported in 3% to 19% of patients receiving long-acting pasireotide injection once monthly. Other common general reactions resported with subcutaneous pasireotide injection included weakness or asthenia (2% had grade 3 or 4 and 9% had grade 1 or 2 events), fatigue (15% to 24%), alopecia (12%), and hypotension (7%). Muscular and joint pains were also also reported: myalgia (1% had grade 3 or 4 and 8% had grade 1 or 2 events), arthralgia (8%), back pain (6%), and extremity pain (6%). Laboratory abnormalities included hypoglycemia (2% had grade 3 or 4 and 7% had grade 1 or 2 events) and hyponatremia. Alopecia (2% to 18%), arthralgia (10%), back pain (8%), pain in extremity (7%), fatigue (10%), and hypoglycemia (3% to 7%) were reported in acromegaly patients receiving long-acting pasireotide injections once monthly. In a clinical study of patients with Cushing's disease, the following adverse events were reported in at least 5% of patients receiving long-acting pasireotide: adrenal insufficiency (7)%, decreased blood cortisol (5%), hypotension (6%), fatigue including asthenia (27%), back pain (11%), arthralgia (8%), pain in extremity (7%), myalgia (5%), hyperuricemia (7%), and hypoglycemia (15%). Some reported events may be symptoms of hypocortisolism and adrenalcortical insufficiency; pasireotide leads to suppression of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion in Cushing's disease and may lead to reduced cortisol concentrations. Adrenocortical insufficiency was reported in 6% of pasireotide subcutaneous injection recipients and 2% to 3% of patients receiving long-acting pasireotide injection once monthly. Decreased cortisol concentrations may cause weakness, fatigue, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, hypotension, hyponatremia, or hypoglycemia. If hypocortisolism occurs, consider temporary pasireotide dose reduction or interruption, as well as temporary, exogenous glucocorticoid replacement therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      adrenocortical insufficiency
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia
    General Information
    Among recipients (n = 162) of subcutaneous pasireotide twice daily, 4% experienced anemia. Mean decreases in hemoglobin concentrations were noted, but the concentrations remained within the normal range for most patients. The clinical significance of reductions in hemoglobin concentrations is uncertain. Anemia was also reported in 3% to 6% of acromegaly patients and 5% of Cushing's patients receiving long-acting pasireotide injections once monthly.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypopituitarism, hypothyroidism
    General Information
    During clinical trials for Cushing's disease with pasireotide subcutaneous injection, 7 of the treated patients (4.3%) experienced hypothyroidism. However, all of these patients had a baseline TSH concentration that was close to or below the lower limit of normal, so a conclusive relationship between pasireotide and hypothyroidism cannot be established. Of note, the pharmacologic activity of pasireotide mimics that of somatostatin. Thus, inhibition of pituitary hormones other than ACTH may occur, resulting in hypopituitarism. Determine pituitary function (e.g., thyroid, adrenal, gonadal) by measuring appropriate laboratory tests (e.g., TSH, free T4, GH, and IGF-1) before pasireotide initiation and periodically during treatment as clinically indicated. For example, consider periodic monitoring of pituitary function for patients who have undergone transsphenoidal surgery and pituitary irradiation as these patients are at risk for pituitary hormone deficiency.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypothyroidism
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypopituitarism
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hematoma, injection site reaction
    General Information
    Among subcutaneous pasireotide injection recipients during clinical trials (n = 162), 17% had an injection site reaction such as local pain, erythema, hematoma, local bleeding, and pruritus. The local reactions resolved spontaneously and did not require intervention. Rotate subcutaneous injection sites with each dose and avoid multiple injections at the same site within short time periods. Injection site reaction was reported in 7% of acromegaly patients receiving long-acting pasireotide once-monthy injections and included the following: injection site pain, injection site hematoma, pruritus, swelling, and erythema. In a clinical study of patients with Cushing's disease, injection site reactions were reported in 2% of patients receiving long-acting pasireotide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anxiety, insomnia
    General Information
    Insomnia and anxiety may be dose-related adverse effects of pasireotide. Anxiety was noted in 6% of 82 patients receiving pasireotide 0.6 mg twice daily and in 11% of 80 patients who received a 0.9 mg twice daily dose. Likewise, insomnia was noted in 4% of patients receiving the lower dose and in 14% of patients who received the higher dose.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, peripheral edema
    General Information
    During clinical trials (n = 162) of subcutaneous pasireotide injection twice daily for Cushing's disease, 10% of treated patients experienced peripheral edema, hypertension, or hypercholesterolemia. Of note, all three conditions are common among patients with excess cortisol. Hypertension was reported in 8% of patients with acromegaly receiving long-acting pasireotide injections once monthly. In a clinical study of patients with Cushing's disease, the following adverse events were reported in at least 5% of patients receiving long-acting pasireotide injection: hypertension (15%), peripheral edema (14%), and hypercholesterolemia (6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, infection, influenza, pharyngitis
    General Information
    Naso-pharyngitis (6% to 16%), influenza (8%), upper respiratory tract infection (7%), and cough (5%) were reported in patients with acromegaly who were receiving long-acting pasireotide injection once monthly during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Pasireotide is a somatostatin analog. It is indicated for the treatment of adults with Cushing's disease or acromegaly for whom pituitary surgery is not an option or has not been curative. The drug inhibits ACTH secretion and, thus, decreases cortisol secretion. In patients with Cushing's syndrome, the drug normalizes mean free urinary cortisol concentrations and improves objective clinical signs and symptoms of the disease. Of patients with persistent or recurrent Cushing's disease despite pituitary surgery or for whom surgery is not indicated or is refused, the drug is effective in normalizing mean 24-hour urinary free cortisol concentrations after 6 to 7 months of therapy (normal range, 30 to 145 nmol/24 hours), and providing symptomatic disease improvement. Guidelines strongly recommend pasireotide in patients with mild Cushing's disease if residual tumor is present as there is a potential for tumor shrinkage. Biochemical control is also able to be achieved in acromegaly patients. In patients naive to drugs used to treat acromegaly, long-acting pasireotide was compared to a somatostatin analog active comparator; the efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients biochemically controlled (i.e., mean GH level less than 2.5 mcg/L and a normal IGF-1 levels) at month 12. The proportion of patients achieving this level of control was 31.3% and 19.2% for long-acting pasireotide and active comparator, respectively. In patients with pre-existing acromegaly inadequately controlled on other somatostatin analogs, the proportion of patients achieving biochemical control was 15.4%, 20%, and 0% for long-acting pasireotide 40 mg, long-acting pasireotide 60 mg, or continued pre-trial therapy, respectively, at 6 months. Hyperglycemia is an expected adverse event of pasireotide even in patients with normal glycemic control; the drug can also prolong the QT interval.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Pasireotide is a somatostatin analogue that binds and, thus, activates somatostatin receptors. Of the 5 human somatostatin (hsst) receptors, pasireotide has the greatest binding affinity for hsst5 but also binds with high affinity to hsst1, hsst2, and hsst3. As a comparison, the binding affinity for somatostatin is greatest for hsst2, although somatostatin binds with high affinity to each of the 5 receptor subtypes.
 
Corticotroph adenomas express somatostatin receptors, predominantly hsst5. Activation of hsst5 inhibits corticotropin secretion, which lowers cortisol secretion, helping to normalize mean urinary free cortisol levels. In addition to corticotropin secretion inhibition, pasireotide also may inhibit other pituitary hormones such as growth hormone because the pharmacological activity of pasireotide mimics that of somatostatin. After a single 0.6 mg subcutaneous dose to healthy adults, the median change from baseline in systemic exposure of growth hormone over 2 hours was -82.5% (range, -59.6 to -96.5%). Patients received a growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) stimulation test of 1 mcg/kg approximately 3 hours after pasireotide administration, and plasma growth hormone concentrations were obtained at designated time points up to 2 hours after GHRH administration.
 
In healthy patients, pasireotide-induced hyperglycemia appears to be mediated by a severe defect in the secretion of insulin and the incretin hormones GLP-1 and gastric inhibitory peptide. Glucagon secretion appears moderately inhibited. In contrast, peripheral and hepatic insulin sensitivity appear to be unaffected.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intramuscular Route
    Description
    Steady state for long-acting pasireotide injection is achieved after 3 months. Following multiple IM doses every 4 weeks (every 28 days), long-acting pasireotide demonstrates approximately dose-proportional pharmacokinetic exposures in the dose range of 20 mg to 60 mg every 4 weeks in patients with acromegaly.
    Name
    Subcutaneous Route
    Description
    The peak plasma concentration (Cmax) of pasireotide subcutaneous injection is attained within 0.25 to 0.5 hours after administration in healthy patients and is dose-proportional.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Significantly higher pasireotide exposures were noted among patients with either moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B or C). As compared with control group data, the systemic exposure of pasireotide was increased 12% among patients with mild hepatic impairment, 56% among patients with moderate hepatic impairment, and 42% among patients with severe hepatic impairment. The maximum serum concentration (Cmax) was similarly increased. Pasireotide dose reduction is advised for patients with Child-Pugh B impairment, and avoidance of the drug is advised for patients with severe (Child-Pugh C) impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Renal clearance is a minor elimination pathway of pasireotide, and reduced renal function is not expected to significantly impact circulating pasireotide concentrations.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age does not appear to affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of pasireotide. Age is not a significant covariate in the population PK analysis of patients with acromegaly. Efficacy and safety data on patients with acromegaly older than 65 years are limited.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender does not appear to affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of pasireotide.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No meaningful difference in the pharmacokinetic parameters of pasireotide exists between Caucasian and non-Caucasian patients.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight does not appear to affect the pharmacokinetic parameters of pasireotide.
  Text
  Pasireotide is administered parenterally; the regular-release formulation should be given subcutaneously, while the long-acting formulation should only be given intramuscularly. Systemic exposure is dose-proportional after single and multiple doses. It is 88% bound to plasma proteins, and binding is independent of concentration. In healthy volunteers, unchanged pasireotide is the predominant form found in plasma, urine, and feces. Elimination is mainly by biliary excretion. Of a radioactive dose, 55.9 +/- 6.63% was recovered over the first 10 days; 48.3 +/- 8.16 in feces and 7.63 +/- 2.03% in urine. The half-life of the subcutaneous injection solution was calculated to be approximately 12 hours. In healthy volunteers, the apparent clearance (CL/F) of the intramuscular long-acting pasireotide suspension is on average 4.5 to 8.5 L/hour.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
Pasireotide is likely to be a substrate of P-gp, but the impact of P-gp on pharmacokinetic parameters is expected to be low. Pasireotide is not a substrate of efflux transporter BCRP, influx transporter OCT1, or influx transporters OATP 1B1, 1B3, or 2B1. Suppression of growth hormone secretion by somatostatin analogs such as pasireotide may decrease the metabolic clearance of drugs metabolized by CYP450 enzymes.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intramuscular Administration
      Description
      Pasireotide Injection Suspension (e.g., Signifor LAR)
For intramuscular (IM) administration only into the right or left gluteus. Never administer intravenously.
Pasireotide suspension must be reconstituted and administered by a trained health care professional only.
An instruction booklet for preparation of the IM drug suspension is provided in each kit.
Use the provided diluent only.
Preparation: Not following the proper reconstitution steps could result in failure to deliver the drug appropriately.
Drug product kit should remain at room temperature for a minimum of 30 minutes before reconstitution, but do not exceed 24 hours.
After adding the 2 mL of the provided diluent solution, shake the vial moderately in a horizontal direction for a minimum of 30 seconds until uniform suspension is formed.
After reconstitution of the 10 mg vial the final concentration will be 5 mg/mL.
After reconstitution of the 20 mg vial the final concentration will be 10 mg/mL.
After reconstitution of the 30 mg vial the final concentration will be 15 mg/mL.
After reconstitution of the 40 mg vial the final concentration will be 20 mg/mL.
After reconstitution of the 60 mg vial the final concentration will be 30 mg/mL.
Administer the drug suspension immediately after preparation. Administer the dose for the patient in its entirety.
If you have questions about preparation and/or administration of Pasireotide suspension, call 1-888-NOW-NOVA or 1-888-669-6682.
      Name
      Subcutaneous Administration
      Description
      Pasireotide Injection Solution (e.g., Signifor)
Pasireotide is administered by subcutaneous injection. The patient may be taught to self-administer the medicine if determined to be appropriate by the prescriber; see patient insert from the manufacturer.
The injection solution should be clear and colorless; do not use an ampule that appears cracked, damaged, or cloudy.
Tap the top of the ampule to get any liquid at the top to move to the bottom.
To open the ampule, pull the top sideways until the top snaps off at the line marked on the ampule's neck.
Using the long needle, withdraw all of the liquid without the needle touching the outside of the ampule. Replace the long needle with the short needle, and tap the syringe to get any air bubbles to rise.
Push up on the plunger gently until a drop of liquid appears.
Chose an injection site on the top of the thigh or abdomen that does NOT show signs of inflammation or irritation. Use of the same injection site for 2 consecutive injections is not recommended. Also, avoid multiple injections at or near the same site within short periods of time.
Gently pinch the skin, and insert the needle at a 45-degree angle using a quick, dart-like motion. Keeping the skin pinched, gently press the plunger to deliver all the medicine.
Slowly let go of the skin and remove the needle.
Place a cotton ball or gauze pad over the site and press for about 5 seconds. Do not massage the site.
Do not reuse unused portions of the ampules and properly dispose of the ampules after use.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1.8 mg/day subcutaneously for regular-release injection (Signifor). For long acting injection (Signifor LAR): 40 mg IM every 4 weeks IM for Cushing's disease and 60 mg IM every 4 weeks for acromegaly.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1.8 mg/day subcutaneously for regular-release injection (Signifor). For long acting injection (Signifor LAR): 40 mg IM every 4 weeks IM for Cushing's disease and 60 mg IM every 4 weeks for acromegaly.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild impairment (Child-Pugh class A): No dose adjustment needed.
Moderate impairment (Child-Pugh class B): For immediate-release injection (Signifor): Initially 0.3 mg subcutaneously twice daily; Max: 0.6 mg subcutaneously twice daily. For the long-acting injection (Signifor LAR): For acromegaly, give 20 mg IM every 4 weeks initially; Max: 40 mg IM every 4 weeks. For Cushing's disease, give 10 mg IM every 4 weeks initially; Max: 20 mg IM every 4 weeks.
Severe impairment (Child-Pugh class C): Avoid use.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
