=== Estazolam (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1322)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Estazolam is an intermediate-acting oral benzodiazepine that is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 2 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal, anxiety, asthenia, ataxia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dyskinesia, eeg changes, emotional lability, euphoria, hallucinations, hyporeflexia, impaired cognition, libido decrease, neuritis, nystagmus, paresthesias, seizures, tremor, agitation, hostility, restlessness, bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, hyperventilation

In an Overdose: Treatment with estazolam should not be re-initiated in patients who experience angioedema.Manifestations of estazolam overdose include respiratory depression, confusion, impaired coordination, slurred speech, somnolence, and ultimately... Patients have recovered from estazolam overdose of 40 mg with appropriate supportive care.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Estazolam is contraindicated in any patient with a known estazolam hypersensitivity or known allergies to any component of the formulation. Reactions including anaphylaxis or angioedema may become evident as early as the initial dose.

Brand Names
  - ProSom

Dosage Forms
  - Estazolam 1mg Oral tablet
  - Estazolam 2mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 mg PO at bedtime initially. Some adults may need 2 mg/night PO.
        Heading
        Geriatric Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 mg PO at bedtime initially. Increase with caution; geriatric adults are more sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines. Use the lowest effective dose. Adult Max: 2 mg/night. Consider an initial dose of 0.5 mg for small or debilitated older patients, even though this dose is only marginally effective in the overall elderly population.
    Heading
    For the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty in falling asleep, nocturnal awakenings, and/or early morning awakenings

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Estazolam is contraindicated in any patient with a known estazolam hypersensitivity or known allergies to any component of the formulation. Reactions including anaphylaxis or angioedema may become evident as early as the initial dose. Patients should be instructed on the appropriate action in the event of an allergic reaction. Treatment with estazolam should not be re-initiated in patients who experience angioedema after administration of the drug. Patients with a benzodiazepine hypersensitivity to other benzodiazepines may experience cross-sensitivity to estazolam.
 
Estazolam should be used cautiously in patients with psychosis. Patients with late stage Parkinson's disease may experience worsening of their psychosis or impaired cognition with administration of benzodiazepines. Benzodiazepines may also cause incoordination or paradoxical reactions that may worsen symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Estazolam may be beneficial for patients with major depression; in contrast, other benzodiazepines have been reported to worsen depression. Estazolam should be administered cautiously and in minimal quantities, if at all, to patients with suicidal ideation. Estazolam should be used cautiously in patients with bipolar disorder because mania and hypomania have been reported in conjunction with the use of benzodiazepines in depressive disorders.
 
Estazolam can cause physical and psychological dependence, and should be used with extreme caution in patients with known, suspected, or a history of substance abuse or benzodiazepine dependence. Abrupt discontinuation of estazolam after prolonged use can cause seizures or seizure disorders in susceptible patients. Patients with a history of a seizure disorder or who are taking other drugs that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., bupropion, TCAs, phenothiazines) should not be withdrawn abruptly from benzodiazepines due to the risk of precipitating a seizure; status epilepticus has also been reported. The severity of withdrawal symptoms may be associated with higher doses. Abrupt discontinuation of benzodiazepine therapy has been reported to cause withdrawal symptoms such as irritability, nervousness, and insomnia. Benzodiazepine withdrawal is more likely to occur following abrupt cessation after excessive or prolonged doses, but it can occur following the discontinuance of therapeutic doses administered for as few as 1—2 weeks. Benzodiazepine withdrawal also can be more intense if the benzodiazepine involved possesses a relatively short duration of action such as estazolam. Estazolam should be withdrawn cautiously and slowly, using a very gradual dosage-tapering schedule. During withdrawal, the greatest risk of seizure appears to be during the first 24 to 72 hours.
 
Estazolam should be used with extreme caution in patients with respiratory depression, pulmonary disease such as severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), shock or sleep apnea because benzodiazepines adversely effect the control of upper respiratory muscles or decrease the ventilatory response to CO2. Although benzodiazepines may improve sleep and sleep structure in patients with COPD, effects on respiratory response to CO2 may cause hypoventilation and hypoxemia in patients with severe COPD. Benzodiazepines may decrease muscular tone in patients with obstructive sleep apnea and exaggerate the impact of apneic episodes on hypoxia, pulmonary hypertension, and cardiac load. Estazolam should be used with caution in patients who snore regularly, because partial airway obstruction may convert to obstructive sleep apnea. At recommended doses, estazolam-associated respiratory depression is not common in healthy patients.
 
Due to CNS depression, patients should be cautioned against driving or operating machinery until they know how estazolam may affect them. Some patients may experience excessive sedation and impaired ability to perform tasks. Sedative-hypnotic medications have the potential to cause sleep-related behaviors such as sleep-driving, a state of driving after ingestion of a sedative-hypnotic while not fully awake and having no memory of the event. Other sleep-related behaviors may include making phone calls or eating while asleep. The exact incidences among various sedative products are unknown; however patients should be informed of the risks prior to receiving any medication from this class. Increased CNS effects may be seen with concurrent use of estazolam and other CNS depressant agents (see Drug Interactions), and in patients with acute ethanol intoxication or organic brain syndromes (i.e., dementia). Patients with ethanol intoxication who have also consumed estazolam have an increased risk of depressed respiration and coma. Ethanol should be avoided during treatment with estazolam. Anterograde amnesia has been reported to occur with benzodiazepines.
 
Estazolam should be used with extreme caution in patients with myasthenia gravis because the drug can exacerbate this condition.
 
Estazolam is contraindicated during pregnancy as it may cause fetal damage (FDA pregnancy risk category X). An increased risk of congenital malformations is associated with administration of benzodiazepines during the first trimester. Females of childbearing potential should use effective birth control methods while receiving estazolam. Pregnancy should be ruled out and women should discontinue use of estazolam prior to becoming pregnant. The patient should be apprised of the potential risk to the fetus if she should become pregnant during estazolam therapy. It should be anticipated that neonates may experience withdrawal symptoms and ventilatory depression if the mother has been using benzodiazepines late in pregnancy. Neonatal flaccidity has been reported in infants whose mothers were using benzodiazepines during pregnancy. Estazolam has no established use in labor or obstetric delivery.
 
Studies have demonstrated that estazolam is secreted into the milk of lactating rats; studies in humans have not been done. The use of estazolam in women who are breast-feeding is not recommended due to potential side effects in the nursing infant, including somnolence and feeding difficulties.
 
Estazolam should be administered cautiously to patients with severe hepatic disease because the elimination half-life of the drug can be prolonged, possibly resulting in toxicity. Patients with hepatic disease are more likely to experience adverse CNS reactions and should receive reduced initial dosages. Particular caution should be observed in patients with alcoholism.
 
Patients with renal failure or severe renal impairment, and the elderly, underweight, or debilitated may require lower initial doses and close monitoring of estazolam due to reduced clearance and/or elimination (see Dosage). Delayed elimination can either intensify or prolong the actions of adverse reactions of the drug. Benzodiazepines have been associated with an increased incidence of falls in the elderly. The impairment of cognitive and motor function may be more marked in this patient group and a lower dosage is recommended together with close monitoring (see Dosage). Federal OBRA regulations recommend dosage limits for anxiolytic and hypnotic use in the nursing home resident (see Dosage).
 
The safe and effective use of estazolam in children under 18 years has not been established. Children are generally more sensitive to the CNS effects of the benzodiazepines.
 
 Many benzodiazepines are contraindicated in patients with acute closed-angle glaucoma. However, the manufacturers of estazolam do not contraindicate its use in any type of glaucoma. The mechanistic rational for this contraindication has been questioned, as benzodiazepines do not have antimuscarinic activity and do not raise intraocular pressure. Benzodiazepines may be used in patients with open-angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy. 
 
The administration of benzodiazepines can exacerbate acute intermittent porphyria, so estazolam should be used with caution in patients with this condition.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Patients who present initially for treatment for sleep disturbances may have an underlying psychological and/or physiological disturbance and should be thoroughly evaluated prior to initiation of estazolam. The failure of the insomnia to remit or worsening of the insomnia may indicate the presence of other primary psychiatric or medical conditions. Evaluate any patient who uses estazolam for more than 12 weeks; there is evidence to support the ability of estazolam to enhance the duration and quality of sleep for intervals of up to 12 weeks. Benzodiazepines may worsen depression. Consequently, appropriate precautions (e.g., limiting the total prescription size and increased monitoring for suicidal ideation) should be considered in patients with depression.
    Headline
    coadministration with certain medications, pulmonary disease, respiratory insufficiency
    General Information
    Estazolam coadministration with certain medications, such as opioids, may result in serious adverse effects, including profound sedation, CNS depression, respiratory depression, coma, and death. The concomitant use of these medications has demonstrated an increased risk of drug-related mortality compared to the use of opioids alone. The combined use of opioids and benzodiazepines should be reserved for patients in whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If the decision is made to prescribe estazolam concomitantly with opioids, the lowest effective dose should be prescribed for the shortest duration of use, and patients should be followed closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Advise patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when estazolam is used with opioids. Deaths have been reported in people with severe pulmonary disease after initiation of benzodiazepines; closely monitor patients with impaired respiratory function (respiratory insufficiency). If signs and symptoms of respiratory depression, hypoventilation, or apnea occur, discontinue estazolam.
    Headline
    abrupt discontinuation, increased risk for benzodiazepine withdrawal, substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    The use of benzodiazepines, including estazolam, exposes users to serious adverse events, including risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which can increase the frequency of serious adverse outcomes. Before prescribing and throughout treatment, assess each patient's risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction using a standardized screening tool. Counsel patients about the risks and proper use of estazolam and prescribe the lowest effective dose to reduce excess exposure and advise patients on proper disposal of unused medication. Minimize the concomitant use of CNS depressants or other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants). If a substance abuse disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute or refer them for early treatment. Chronic, continued use of benzodiazepines may also lead to physical benzodiazepine dependence. The risk of dependence increases with longer treatment duration and higher daily doses and may lead to an increased risk for benzodiazepine withdrawal upon discontinuation. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dose reduction can precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening. To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to reduce the dose or discontinue estazolam. In some cases, patients using benzodiazepines have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months. Patients with a history of a seizure disorder should not be withdrawn abruptly from benzodiazepines due to the risk of precipitating seizures; status epilepticus has also been reported. Clinicians should be aware that the use of flumazenil may increase the risk of seizures, particularly in long-term users of benzodiazepines.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Due to CNS depressive effects, individuals should be cautioned against driving or operating machinery or participating in other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they know how estazolam may affect them. Some patients may experience excessive sedation and impaired ability to perform tasks. Given the primary CNS effects of estazolam, use caution during coadministration with other CNS depressants. Alcohol may further impair cognitive and motor skills and can increase the risk of serious CNS or respiratory depression; alcohol use should be avoided during estazolam treatment. Estazolam can also cause drug-induced complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., sleep-driving, eating, sexual activity, or making phone calls) with no memory of these events. These effects can occur with or without concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants. Rarely, serious injuries or death have occurred. Patients should discontinue estazolam immediately and contact their healthcare provider if such episodes occur.
    Headline
    myasthenia gravis
    General Information
    Estazolam should be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis, particularly at high doses; these patients may be more sensitive to the CNS and respiratory effects of the benzodiazepines.
    Headline
    hepatic failure, renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    In general, use estazolam with caution in individuals with hepatic failure, renal impairment, or renal failure; monitor for excessive sedation or impairment and adjust dosage to clinical response.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Estazolam should be used cautiously in geriatric adults since they are more sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines; lower initial doses and slower titration are recommended. Because estazolam can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, there is a higher risk of falls, particularly in the elderly, with the potential for subsequent severe injuries. The Beers Criteria state that benzodiazepines are potentially inappropriate medications in geriatric adults with a history of delirium, dementia, or a history of falls or fractures; benzodiazepines increase the risk of cognitive impairment, delirium, falls, fractures, and motor vehicle accidents in older adults and avoidance is generally recommended, with some exceptions for approved indications. If a benzodiazepine must be used, consider reducing the use of other CNS-active medications and implement other strategies to reduce fall risk. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates anxiolytic and sedative/hypnotic use in long-term care facilities. Per OBRA, estazolam is not a medication of choice in the older adult. When a drug is used to induce sleep, treat a sleep disorder, manage behavior, stabilize mood, or treat a psychiatric disorder, tapering as outlined in the OBRA guidelines should be attempted unless clinically contraindicated. Dosages and durations of treatment used should align with prescribing labels, published literature recommendations, and expert guidelines.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Published data from observational studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide use. However, more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, adjusted for confounding exposures to other substances, have not confirmed these findings. Benzodiazepines cross the placenta. Neonates exposed to benzodiazepines during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, may experience symptoms of sedation. Those with prolonged exposure during late pregnancy may experience withdrawal after delivery. The incidence, time to onset, and duration of sedation and withdrawal are multifactorial (e.g., duration of use, drug lipophilicity, placental disposition, degree of accumulation in neonatal tissues). Individuals who become pregnant or intend to become pregnant while taking estazolam should be advised to discuss the possibility of discontinuing the drug with their physician. If a benzodiazepine is required during pregnancy, avoid first trimester administration if possible, consider short-acting agents, limit treatment to the shortest possible duration and lowest effective dose, and discontinue the drug well before delivery. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to estazolam or other psychiatric medications during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychiatric Medications at 1-866-961-2388 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/.
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Monitor neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero for symptoms of withdrawal, such as hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties. In neonates exposed during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, monitor for sedation, including respiratory depression, lethargy, and hypotonia. If symptoms are present, manage accordingly.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of estazolam during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of estazolam in human milk; however, it is present in rodent milk. Estazolam use during lactation is not recommended due to its long half-life, the potential for accumulation in breast milk, and the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. Consider other agents with more data. For the treatment of insomnia, alternate medications for consideration during breast-feeding include zaleplon or zolpidem. If benzodiazepines are used during lactation, monitor exposed children for excessive sedation, slowed breathing rate, poor feeding, and inadequate weight gain. Withdrawal may occur in those with long-term exposure to the drug. This may occur with cessation of breast-feeding or cessation of the medication in the breast-feeding person.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Published data from observational studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide use. However, more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, adjusted for confounding exposures to other substances, have not confirmed these findings. Benzodiazepines cross the placenta. Neonates exposed to benzodiazepines during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, may experience symptoms of sedation. Those with prolonged exposure during late pregnancy may experience withdrawal after delivery. The incidence, time to onset, and duration of sedation and withdrawal are multifactorial (e.g., duration of use, drug lipophilicity, placental disposition, degree of accumulation in neonatal tissues). Individuals who become pregnant or intend to become pregnant while taking estazolam should be advised to discuss the possibility of discontinuing the drug with their physician. If a benzodiazepine is required during pregnancy, avoid first trimester administration if possible, consider short-acting agents, limit treatment to the shortest possible duration and lowest effective dose, and discontinue the drug well before delivery. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to estazolam or other psychiatric medications during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychiatric Medications at 1-866-961-2388 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of estazolam during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of estazolam in human milk; however, it is present in rodent milk. Estazolam use during lactation is not recommended due to its long half-life, the potential for accumulation in breast milk, and the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. Consider other agents with more data. For the treatment of insomnia, alternate medications for consideration during breast-feeding include zaleplon or zolpidem. If benzodiazepines are used during lactation, monitor exposed children for excessive sedation, slowed breathing rate, poor feeding, and inadequate weight gain. Withdrawal may occur in those with long-term exposure to the drug. This may occur with cessation of breast-feeding or cessation of the medication in the breast-feeding person.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for estazolam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with adagrasib is necessary. Adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and estazolam is primarily metabolized by CYP3A. In vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted between estazolam and inhibitors of CYP3A.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Amoxapine may enhance the response to the effects of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants. Patients should be warned of the possibility of drowsiness that may impair performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving an automobile or operating machinery.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as estazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of estazolam efficacy if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. While no in vivo drug-drug interaction studies were conducted between estazolam and inducers of CYP3A, compounds that are potent CYP3A inducers would be expected to decrease estazolam concentrations.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if estazolam and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in estazolam-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. If a benzodiazepine is necessary, a dosage adjustment of the multi-day regimen may be necessary depending on the clinical situation (e.g., elderly patients) and degree of monitoring available; no dosage adjustment is needed for a single 40-mg dose of aprepitant or 150-mg dose of fosaprepitant. Consider selection of an agent that is not metabolized via CYP3A4 isoenzymes (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam, temazepam). Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of estazolam. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as estazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression).
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression). (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of estazolam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; estazolam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of estazolam. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated estazolam plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for estazolam-related adverse events.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If benzhydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benztropine: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of benztropine.
Brexanolone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of brexanolone with CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines may increase the likelihood or severity of adverse reactions related to sedation and additive CNS depression. Monitor for excessive sedation, dizziness, and a potential for loss of consciousness during brexanolone use.
Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brimonidine; Brinzolamide: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated for pain in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. Reduce injectable buprenorphine dose by 1/2, and for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start therapy with the 5 mcg/hour patch. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. In patients treated with buprenorphine for opioid use disorder, cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases. Consider alternatives to benzodiazepines for conditions such as anxiety or insomnia in patients receiving buprenorphine maintenance treatment. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated for pain in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. Reduce injectable buprenorphine dose by 1/2, and for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start therapy with the 5 mcg/hour patch. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. In patients treated with buprenorphine for opioid use disorder, cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases. Consider alternatives to benzodiazepines for conditions such as anxiety or insomnia in patients receiving buprenorphine maintenance treatment. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
busPIRone: (Moderate) It is common for patients to overlap anxiety treatment when switching from benzodiazepines to buspirone. Buspirone has a slow onset of action and the drug will not block the withdrawal syndrome often seen with cessation of benzodiazepine therapy in those with benzodiazepine dependence. Therefore, before starting therapy with buspirone, withdraw patients gradually from the benzodiazepine. Alternatively, conversion to buspirone therapy may require treatment overlap to allow for the downward titration of the benzodiazepine while buspirone takes effect. It should be noted that the combination of buspirone and benzodiazepines can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and estazolam. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Carbamazepine is a hepatic inducer and can theoretically increase the clearance of benzodiazepines metabolized by oxidative metabolism, possibly leading to reduced benzodiazepine concentrations.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of cariprazine, caution should be used when cariprazine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including benzodiazepines and other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for estazolam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ceritinib is necessary. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and estazolam is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. In vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted between estazolam and inhibitors of CYP3A.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Cimetidine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Ciprofloxacin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
cloBAZam: (Major) Use clobazam with other benzodiazepines with caution due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Clonidine has CNS depressive effects and can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) If concurrent therapy with clozapine and a benzodiazepine is necessary, it is advisable to begin with the lowest possible benzodiazepine dose and closely monitor the patient, particularly at initiation of treatment and following dose increases. Although the combination has been used safely, adverse reactions such as confusion, ataxia, somnolence, delirium, collapse, cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, and death have occurred rarely in patients receiving clozapine concurrently or following benzodiazepine therapy. Several benzodiazepines, including clonazepam, oxazepam, flurazepam, diazepam, clobazam, flunitrazepam, and lorazepam have been implicated in these reactions. At least one case of sudden death was reported following intravenous administration of lorazepam to a patient receiving clozapine.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of estazolam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; estazolam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of estazolam. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated estazolam plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for estazolam-related adverse events.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
COMT inhibitors: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Daridorexant: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during use of daridorexant with estazolam. Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. Use of more than 2 hypnotics should be avoided due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with daridorexant, a reduction in dose of one or both agents may be needed. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if daridorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Darunavir: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression).
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression). (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of estazolam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; estazolam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of estazolam. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated estazolam plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for estazolam-related adverse events.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression). (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of estazolam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; estazolam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of estazolam. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated estazolam plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for estazolam-related adverse events.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Desipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as estazolam, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dexmedetomidine and benzodiazepines may result in additive CNS depression. A reduction in dosage of dexmedetomidine or the benzodiazepine may be required.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Dicyclomine can cause drowsiness, so it should be used cautiously in patients receiving CNS depressants like benzodiazepines.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Diltiazem is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Disulfiram can decrease the hepatic oxidative metabolism of benzodiazepines if administered concomitantly. Patients receiving estazolam therapy should be monitored for signs of altered benzodiazepine response when disulfiram is initiated or discontinued.
Doxepin: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if the use of benzodiazepines are necessary with dronabinol, and monitor for additive dizziness, confusion, somnolence, and other CNS effects.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Estazolam is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes. In December 2001, the FDA issued a black box warning regarding the use of droperidol and its association with QT prolongation and potential for cardiac arrhythmias based on post-marketing surveillance data. Risk factors for the development of prolonged QT syndrome may include the use of benzodiazepines. Also, droperidol and benzodiazepines can both cause CNS depression. If used with a benzodiazepine, droperidol should be initiated at a low dose and adjusted upward, with caution, as needed to achieve the desired effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) In vivo, efavirenz has been shown to induce hepatic enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. Patients receiving benzodiazepines that are metabolized by these isoenzymes may experience decreased benzodiazepine serum concentrations if administered concurrently with efavirenz. Efavirenz should be used with caution with oxidized benzodiazepines including estazolam. Monitor patients closely for excessive side effects.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) In vivo, efavirenz has been shown to induce hepatic enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. Patients receiving benzodiazepines that are metabolized by these isoenzymes may experience decreased benzodiazepine serum concentrations if administered concurrently with efavirenz. Efavirenz should be used with caution with oxidized benzodiazepines including estazolam. Monitor patients closely for excessive side effects.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) In vivo, efavirenz has been shown to induce hepatic enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. Patients receiving benzodiazepines that are metabolized by these isoenzymes may experience decreased benzodiazepine serum concentrations if administered concurrently with efavirenz. Efavirenz should be used with caution with oxidized benzodiazepines including estazolam. Monitor patients closely for excessive side effects.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering estazolam with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated estazolam plasma concentrations. Estazolam is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Use caution when administering ivacaftor and estazolam concurrently. Ivacaftor is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Co-administration of ivacaftor with CYP3A substrates, such as estazolam, can increase estazolam exposure leading to increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of estazolam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; estazolam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of estazolam. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated estazolam plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for estazolam-related adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of estazolam may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Close clinical monitoring is recommended during coadministration; estazolam dose reductions may be required. Predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the metabolic pathways of these drugs. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of estazolam. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated estazolam plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for estazolam-related adverse events.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for estazolam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Estazolam is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted between estazolam and inhibitors of CYP3A.
Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Erythromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with eszopiclone can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. The concurrent use of eszopiclone with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics at bedtime or in the middle of the night is not recommended. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as fluconazole, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. The manufacturer suggests that estazolam be used only with caution and consideration of appropriate dosage reduction during coadministration.
Flumazenil: (Major) Flumazenil competes with benzodiazepines for binding at the GABA/benzodiazepine-receptor complex, the specific binding site of benzodiazepines. Because binding at the receptor is competitive and flumazenil has a much shorter duration of action than do most benzodiazepines, it is possible for the effects of flumazenil to dissipate sooner than the effects of the benzodiazepine. Flumazenil does not affect the pharmacokinetics of the benzodiazepines. Abrupt awakening can cause dysphoria, agitation, and possibly increased adverse effects. If administered to patients who have received a benzodiazepine chronically, abrupt interruption of benzodiazepine agonism by flumazenil can induce benzodiazepine withdrawal including seizures. Flumazenil has minimal effects on benzodiazepine-induced respiratory depression; suitable ventilatory support should be available, especially in treating acute benzodiazepine overdose. Flumazenil does not reverse the actions of barbiturates, opiate agonists, or tricyclic antidepressants.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) In patients receiving moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as fluvoxamine, estazolam should be used with caution and with consideration of appropriate dosage reduction. Monitor for excessive sedation or next-day drowsiness. The metabolism of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is catalyzed by CYP3A. Fluvoxamine may inhibit the oxidative metabolism of estazolam to some extent, and has been shown to increase the exposure to other benzodiazepines metabolized by the CYP450 system.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression).
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Hydantoin anticonvulsants are hepatic inducers and can theoretically increase the clearance of benzodiazepines metabolized by oxidative metabolism, possibly leading to reduced benzodiazepine concentrations.
Gabapentin: (Major) Concomitant use of benzodiazepines with gabapentin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Guanfacine has been associated with sedative effects and can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines, Caution should be exercised with simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Hydantoin anticonvulsants are hepatic inducers and can theoretically increase the clearance of benzodiazepines metabolized by oxidative metabolism, possibly leading to reduced benzodiazepine concentrations.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydromorphone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce the initial dosage of hydromorphone and titrate to clinical response; for hydromorphone extended-release tablets, use 1/3 to 1/2 of the estimated hydromorphone starting dose. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor,with estazolam, a CYP3A substrate, as estazolam toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when iloperidone is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Imatinib is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Imipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with estazolam may result in increased serum concentrations of estazolam. Estazolam is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Itraconazole: (Major) In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as itraconazole, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity. Although one study using single oral doses of estazolam suggests that itraconazole has no effect on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of estazolam, the manufacturer for Prosom recommends that estazolam should be avoided in patients receiving itraconazole.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Use caution when administering ivacaftor and estazolam concurrently. Ivacaftor is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Co-administration of ivacaftor with CYP3A substrates, such as estazolam, can increase estazolam exposure leading to increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for estazolam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted between estazolam and inhibitors of CYP3A.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during use of lemborexant with benzodiazepines. Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. Use of more than 2 hypnotics should be avoided due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with lemborexant, a reduction in dose of one or both agents may be needed. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Letermovir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of estazolam may occur during concurrent administration with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Closely monitor for estazolam-related adverse events, and reduce the estazolam dose if needed. Estazolam is metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for estazolam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted between estazolam and inhibitors of CYP3A.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If levorphanol is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce the initial dose of levorphanol by approximately 50% or more. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and benzodiazepines. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for estazolam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary. Estazolam is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted between estazolam and inhibitors of CYP3A.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression).
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is expected to decrease the systemic exposure of estazolam. If used together, monitor for clinical efficacy. In vitro, estazolam is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Use caution when administering ivacaftor and estazolam concurrently. Ivacaftor is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Co-administration of ivacaftor with CYP3A substrates, such as estazolam, can increase estazolam exposure leading to increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events. (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is expected to decrease the systemic exposure of estazolam. If used together, monitor for clinical efficacy. In vitro, estazolam is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of lurasidone, caution should be used when lurasidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including benzodiazepines. In one study, co-administration of lurasidone and midazolam increased the Cmax and AUC of midazolam by about 21% and 44%, respectively, compared to midazolam alone; however, dosage adjustment of midazolam based upon pharmacokinetic parameters is not required during concurrent use of lurasidone.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Melatonin: (Major) Use caution when combining melatonin with the benzodiazepines; when the benzodiazepine is used for sleep, co-use of melatonin should be avoided. Use of more than 1 agent for hypnotic purposes may increase the risk for over-sedation, CNS effects, or sleep-related behaviors. Be alert for unusual changes in moods or behaviors. Use caution when combining melatonin with benzodiazepines for other uses. Patients reporting unusual sleep-related behaviors should likely discontinue melatonin use. In animal studies, melatonin has been shown to increase benzodiazepine binding to receptor sites. In one case report, a benzodiazepine-dependent woman with an 11 year history of insomnia weaned and discontinued her benzodiazepine prescription within a few days without rebound insomnia or apparent benzodiazepine withdrawal when melatonin was given. In another case report, the ingestion of excessive melatonin along with normal doses of chlordiazepoxide and an antidepressant resulted in lethargy and short-term amnestic responses. Both cases suggest additive pharmacodynamic effects. In a clinical trial, there was clear evidence for a transitory pharmacodynamic interaction between melatonin and another hypnotic agent one hour following co-dosing. Concomitant administration resulted in increased impairment of attention, memory and coordination compared to the hypnotic agent alone.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Methadone: (Major) Concurrent use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective dose and minimum duration possible. If methadone is initiated for pain in an opioid-naive patient taking a benzodiazepine, use an initial methadone dose of 2.5 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial benzodiazepine dose and titrate to response. In patients treated with methadone for opioid use disorder, cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases. Consider alternatives to benzodiazepines for conditions such as anxiety or insomnia during methadone maintenance treatment. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Methyldopa is associated with sedative effects. Methyldopa can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as barbiturates, benzodiazepines, opiate agonists, or phenothiazines when administered concomitantly.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with benzodiazepines can result in additive sedative effects.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Estazolam should be used with mifepristone only with caution and consideration of appropriate estazolam dosage reduction. CNS depression, impaired motor and/or cognitive performance may occur due to increased estazolam exposure. In some patients, estazolam discontinuation may be necessary. Mifepristone inhibits CYP3A4 when it is used chronically in the treatment of hormonal conditions, such as Cushing's disease. Coadministration of mifepristone may lead to a significant increase in serum concentrations of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates like estazolam. Due to the slow elimination of mifepristone from the body, such interactions may be observed for a prolonged period after mifepristone administration.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS-active drugs with milnacipran or levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with these medications.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and mirtazapine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and estazolam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of estazolam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of estazolam. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with estazolam.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If morphine is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosages and titrate to clinical response. For extended-release tablets, start with morphine 15 mg PO every 12 hours, and for extended-release capsules, start with 30 mg PO every 24 hours or less. Use an initial morphine; naltrexone dose of 20 mg/0.8 mg PO every 24 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Nefazodone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression).
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Nicardipine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Nilotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of nilotinib, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, and estazolam, a CYP3A4 substrate, may result in increased estazolam levels. A estazolam dose reduction may be necessary if these drugs are used together.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Consider withholding estazolam, if clinically appropriate, during receipt of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir. If this is not feasible, consider using an alternative COVID-19 therapy or reducing the estazolam dose. However, do not stop estazolam abruptly or rapidly reduce the dose as this may precipitate an acute withdrawal reaction, especially in patients who have been receiving high doses over an extended period. Coadministration may increase estazolam exposure resulting in increased toxicity and excessive sedation. Estazolam is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression).
Nitroglycerin: (Minor) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as benzodiazepines. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin is used concurrently with benzodiazepines.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with estazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with estazolam to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as estazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as estazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as estazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Opicapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Estazolam is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of estazolam may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxymorphone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use an initial dose of oxymorphone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage and titrate to clinical response. If the extended-release oxymorphone tablets are used concurrently with a CNS depressant, use an initial dosage of 5 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as benzodiazepines, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness when coadministered with paliperidone. Monitor for signs and symptoms of CNS depression and advise patients to avoid driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of papaverine with potent CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines could lead to enhanced sedation.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and estazolam, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of estazolam. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Perphenazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Hydantoin anticonvulsants are hepatic inducers and can theoretically increase the clearance of benzodiazepines metabolized by oxidative metabolism, possibly leading to reduced benzodiazepine concentrations.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Due to the effects of pimozide on cognition, it should be used cautiously with other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole inhibits CYP3A4 and may increase serum concentrations of benzodiazepines metabolized by this enzyme, including estazolam.
Pramipexole: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, including pramipexole, can potentiate the CNS effects.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Pregabalin: (Major) Concomitant use of benzodiazepines with pregabalin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
Primidone: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Procarbazine: (Minor) CNS depressants benzodiazepines can potentiate the CNS depression caused by procarbazine therapy, so these drugs should be used together cautiously.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Propofol: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Protease inhibitors: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression).
Protriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of quetiapine; coadministration of quetiapine with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, or other CNS depressants may result in additive sedative effects.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Ramelteon is a sleep-promoting agent; therefore, additive pharmacodynamic effects are possible when combining ramelteon with benzodiazepines or other miscellaneous anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Pharmacokinetic interactions have been observed with the use of zolpidem. Use of ramelteon 8 mg/day for 11 days and a single dose of zolpidem 10 mg resulted in an increase in the median Tmax of zolpidem of about 20 minutes; exposure to zolpidem was unchanged. Ramelteon use with hypnotics of any kind is considered duplicative therapy and these drugs are generally not co-administered.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) CYP3A4 inhibitors, like ranolazine, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of MAOIs can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including buprenorphine, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Use these drugs cautiously with MAOIs; warn patients to not drive or perform other hazardous activities until they know how a particular drug combination affects them. In some cases, the dosages of the CNS depressants may need to be reduced.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for estazolam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with relacorilant is necessary. Estazolam is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted between estazolam and inhibitors of CYP3A.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Benzodiazepine doses may need to be reduced up to 75% during coadministration with remifentanil. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Remimazolam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by estazolam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ribociclib with estazolam is necessary, as the systemic exposure of estazolam may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression; adjust the dose of estazolam if necessary. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ribociclib with estazolam is necessary, as the systemic exposure of estazolam may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression; adjust the dose of estazolam if necessary. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution should be used when risperidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression).
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Rotigotine: (Major) Concomitant use of rotigotine with other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines, can potentiate the sedative effects of rotigotine.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression).
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the clearance of estazolam. Patients receiving oral contraceptive therapy should be observed for evidence of increased response to such benzodiazepines.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and selegiline due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by benzodiazepines. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) St. John's Wort is a hepatic inducer and can theoretically increase the clearance of benzodiazepines metabolized by oxidative metabolism, possibly leading to reduced benzodiazepine concentrations.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and estazolam. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If tapentadol is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, a reduced initial dosage of tapentadol is recommended. If the extended-release tapentadol tablets are used concurrently with a benzodiazepine, use an initial tapentadol dose of 50 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Teduglutide: (Moderate) Altered mental status has been observed in patients taking teduglutide and benzodiazepines in the adult clinical studies for teduglutide. Careful monitoring and possible dose adjustment of the benzodiazepine agent may be required. Teduglutide has direct effects on the gut that may increase benzodiazepine exposure by improving oral absorption.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as benzodiazepines, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Use caution when administering ivacaftor and estazolam concurrently. Ivacaftor is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Co-administration of ivacaftor with CYP3A substrates, such as estazolam, can increase estazolam exposure leading to increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events.
Thalidomide: (Major) The use of benzodiazepine anxiolytics, sedatives, or hypnotics with thalidomide may cause an additive sedative effect and should be avoided. Thalidomide frequently causes drowsiness and somnolence. Dose reductions may be required. Patients should be instructed to avoid situations where drowsiness may be a problem and not to take other medications that may cause drowsiness without adequate medical advice. Advise patients as to the possible impairment of mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks, such as driving a car or operating other complex or dangerous machinery.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Minor) Aminophylline or Theophylline have been reported to counteract the pharmacodynamic effects of diazepam and possibly other benzodiazepines. The clinical significance of this interaction is not certain. A proposed mechanism is competitive binding of these methylxanthines to adenosine receptors in the brain. If such therapy is initiated or discontinued, monitor the clinical response to the benzodiazepine.
Thioridazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as benzodiazepines. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
tiaGABine: (Moderate) Because of the possible additive effects of drugs that depress the central nervous system, benzodiazepines should be used with caution in patients receiving tiagabine.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by CYP3A. In theory, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity (i.e., prolonged sedation and respiratory depression).
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Tolcapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Verapamil is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
traZODone: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of trazodone and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of trihexyphenidyl.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Trimipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for estazolam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with tucatinib is necessary. Tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and estazolam is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. In vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted between estazolam and inhibitors of CYP3A.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Major) Any substances that act on the CNS, including psychoactive drugs and drugs used as anesthetic adjuvants (e.g., barbiturates, benzodiazepines), may theoretically interact with valerian, Valeriana officinalis. The valerian derivative, dihydrovaltrate, binds at barbiturate binding sites; valerenic acid has been shown to inhibit enzyme-induced breakdown of GABA in the brain; the non-volatile monoterpenes (valepotriates) have sedative activity. These interactions are probably pharmacodynamic in nature. There is a possibility of interaction with valerian at normal prescription dosages of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates and benzodiazepines). Patients who are taking barbiturates or other sedative/hypnotic drugs should avoid concomitant administration of valerian. Patients taking medications such as tricyclic antidepressants, lithium, MAOIs, skeletal muscle relaxants, SSRIs and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (e.g., duloxetine, venlafaxine) should discuss the use of herbal supplements with their health care professional prior to consuming valerian; combinations should be approached with caution in the absence of clinical data. Patients should not abruptly stop taking their prescribed psychoactive medications.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as estazolam, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of estazolam when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Verapamil is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given in combination with benzodiazepines.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as the benzodiazepines.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of voriconazole with estazolam is necessary, as the systemic exposure of estazolam may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression; adjust the dose of estazolam if necessary. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Zafirlukast is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and may reduce the metabolism of estazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Zaleplon: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of zaleplon and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Ziprasidone has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. Additive CNS depressant effects are possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with any CNS depressant.
Zolpidem: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with zolpidem can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. For Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets, reduce the dose to 1.75 mg/night. Concurrent use of zolpidem with other sedative-hypnotics, including other zolpidem products, at bedtime or the middle of the night is not recommended. In addition, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of zolpidem and other CNS depressants than with zolpidem alone.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Tolerance (or tachyphylaxis) may develop to the sedative effects of benzodiazepines, including estazolam. Tolerance to the anxiolytic effects of benzodiazepines has also been reported. If tolerance develops, clinicians should carefully assess the need for escalating doses. A temporary reduction in dosage may be beneficial in some cases to reverse the effects of tachyphylaxis. Daytime anxiety or wakefulness during the last third of the night may develop after several weeks of consistent nightly dosing with estazolam. These effects are thought to be due to the development of tolerance, which leads to a deficiency of benzodiazepine binding sites.Prolonged use of benzodiazepines can produce physiological dependence with or without psychological dependence. The risk of dependence increases with duration of treatment and in those with a history of alcohol or drug abuse. Dependence can occur following routine use of therapeutic doses for as few as 1—2 weeks, particularly during treatment with short-acting benzodiazepines. Extreme caution is advised when considering the use of estazolam in patients with a known or suspected history of substance abuse.Anterograde amnesia can occur following administration of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines, such as estazolam. The risk for developing anterograde amnesia increases at higher doses and with concurrent ingestion of alcohol.The most common adverse effects of estazolam result from an extension of its pharmacologic effects. Drowsiness or somnolence (42%), headache (16%), asthenia (11%) hypokinesia (8%), nervousness (8%), dizziness (7%), abnormal coordination (4%), and nausea/vomiting (nausea 4%) are the most commonly reported side effects associated with estazolam therapy. Other side effects reported in < 3% of patients include confusion, dyspepsia, depression, abnormal dreaming and thought processes, pruritus, back pain, lower extremity pain, abdominal pain, and chest pain (unspecified). Some patients may experience daytime carryover effects including fatigue, impaired cognition, and psychomotor incoordination. Rebound insomnia lasting 1—2 nights may occur after stopping estazolam.Sedative-hypnotic medications have the potential to cause sleep-related behaviors such as sleep-driving, a state of driving after ingestion of a sedative-hypnotic while not fully awake and having no memory of the event. Other sleep-related behaviors may include sleep-walking (somnambulism) or making phone calls or eating while asleep. The exact incidences among various sedative products are unknown; however patients should be informed of the risks prior to receiving any medication from this class.Paradoxical reactions may occur in patients receiving benzodiazepines, including estazolam. This paradoxical effect is possibly due to disinhibition of previously inhibited responses. Symptoms of CNS stimulation include acute rage reactions, agitation, anxiety, euphoria, insomnia, mania, nightmares, restlessness, talkativeness, and tremor. Benzodiazepine therapy should be discontinued if signs of CNS stimulation occur.Withdrawal symptoms may occur following abrupt discontinuation of estazolam. Withdrawal is most commonly associated with prolonged therapy with high dose benzodiazepines but has occurred following 1—2 weeks of therapy at therapeutic doses. A gradual tapering dosage schedule of benzodiazepines is recommended to attenuate withdrawal symptoms upon discontinuation of therapy. Symptoms of withdrawal include abdominal cramps, anxiety, confusion, depression, dysphoria, insomnia, irritability, perceptual disturbances, sweating, nausea, vomiting, paresthesias, photophobia, hyperacusis, tachycardia, and trembling. Convulsions, hallucinations, delirium, and paranoia may also occur. Patients with a history of a seizure disorder should not be withdrawn abruptly from benzodiazepines.At recommended doses, estazolam does not effect respiratory function in healthy patients. Estazolam-induced respiratory depression may be significant in patients with pulmonary disease due to effects on upper respiratory muscles and decreased response to CO2.Estazolam is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category X. Many benzodiazepines have been associated with teratogenesis. Use of benzodiazepines during pregnancy, particularly in the first trimester, increases the risk of congenital malformations and decreases viability.Anaphylactoid reactions (e.g., angioedema) may occur with sedative-hypnotics, such as estazolam, and may become evident as early as the initial dose. Airway obstruction resulting from angioedema of the tongue, glottis, or larynx may be fatal. Other symptoms suggestive of anaphylaxis may include dyspnea, throat closing, and nausea/vomiting. Patients should be instructed on the appropriate action in the event of an allergic reaction. Treatment with estazolam should not be re-initiated in patients who experience angioedema.Manifestations of estazolam overdose include respiratory depression, confusion, impaired coordination, slurred speech, somnolence, and ultimately, coma. Patients have recovered from estazolam overdose of 40 mg with appropriate supportive care. Respiratory arrest is uncommon in estazolam overdose unless other agents such as ethanol are also consumed.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    tolerance
    General Information
    Tolerance to estazolam may develop from continued therapy. Tolerance is a physiological state characterized by a reduced response to a drug after repeated administration (i.e., a higher dose of a drug is required to produce the same effect that was once obtained at a lower dose). Tolerance to the therapeutic effect of estazolam may develop; however, little tolerance develops to the amnestic reactions and other cognitive impairments caused by benzodiazepines.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal
    General Information
    Prolonged use of benzodiazepines can produce physiological dependence with or without psychological dependence. The risk of psychological dependence increases in those with a history of alcohol or substance abuse. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, and death. Caution is advised when considering the use of benzodiazepines in patients with a known or suspected history of substance abuse. To discourage abuse, prescribe the smallest appropriate quantity of the benzodiazepine and provide proper disposal instructions for unused drug. Avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants or other medications associated with addiction or abuse. Clinically significant physiological dependence may occur with continued use of benzodiazepines. The risks of dependence and withdrawal increase with longer treatment duration and higher daily dose. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of benzodiazepines after continued use may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening. Withdrawal symptoms may range from mild dysphoria and insomnia to a major withdrawal syndrome including abdominal and muscle cramps, vomiting, sweating, tremors, and seizures. In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months. Use a gradual dosage taper to lower the risk of withdrawal reactions when reducing the dose or discontinuing therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    amnesia, memory impairment
    General Information
    Anterograde amnesia or memory impairment can occur following administration of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines, such as estazolam. The risk for developing anterograde amnesia increases at higher doses and with concurrent ingestion of alcohol. Amnesia was reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving estazolam during clinical trial evaluation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anxiety, asthenia, ataxia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dyskinesia, EEG changes, emotional lability, euphoria, hallucinations, hyporeflexia, impaired cognition, libido decrease, neuritis, nystagmus, paresthesias, seizures, tremor
    General Information
    During clinical trials for insomnia, the following centrally-mediated effects were reported in at least 1% of patients receiving estazolam and more frequently than placebo: asthenia (11%), somnolence/drowsiness (42%), dyskinesia (hypokinesia 8%), dizziness (7%), impaired coordination (4%), hangover (3%), confusion (2%), and abnormal thinking (2%). Anxiety was reported in approximately 1% of patients. During other clinical trial evaluation, the following CNS effects were reported in 0.1% to 1% of patients receiving estazolam: apathy, emotional lability, euphoria, paresthesias, seizures, sleep disorder (unspecified), stupor, and twitch. Rare effects (less than 0.1%) included ataxia, circumoral paresthesia, libido decrease, hyporeflexia, hallucinations, neuritis, nystagmus, and tremor. Minor EEG changes patterns, usually low-voltage fast activity, have been observed in patients during estazolam therapy or withdrawal and are of no known clinical significance. Because estazolam may cause drowsiness or impaired cognition, patients should be cautioned about driving, operating machinery, or engaging in other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how estazolam affects them. Because estazolam can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, there is a higher risk of falls, particularly in the elderly, with the potential for subsequent severe injuries.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      EEG changes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyporeflexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neuritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nystagmus
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    complex sleep-related behaviors, somnambulism
    General Information
    Sedative-hypnotic medications such as estazolam have the potential to cause complex sleep-related behaviors such as sleep-driving, a state of driving after ingestion of a sedative-hypnotic while not fully awake and having no memory of the event. Other complex sleep-related behaviors may include sleep-walking (somnambulism) or making phone calls or eating while asleep. The exact incidences among various sedative products are unknown; however, patients should be informed of the risks before receiving any medication from this class.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      complex sleep-related behaviors
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      somnambulism
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    agitation, hostility, restlessness
    General Information
    Paradoxical reactions may occur in patients receiving benzodiazepines, including estazolam. This paradoxical effect is possibly due to disinhibition of previously inhibited responses. Symptoms of CNS stimulation include acute rage reactions, agitation, anxiety, restlessness, talkativeness, hostility, hyperactivity, or other adverse behavioral effects. Agitation and hostility were reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving estazolam during clinical trial evaluation. Benzodiazepine therapy should be discontinued if signs of CNS stimulation occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hostility
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    neonatal abstinence syndrome
    General Information
    Neonatal withdrawal or a neonatal abstinence syndrome has been reported following the ingestion of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines during the last weeks of pregnancy. Clinical manifestations of neonatal withdrawal may include hypertonia, hyperreflexia, hypoventilation, irritability, tremors, diarrhea, and vomiting. These complications can appear shortly after delivery to 3 weeks after birth and persist from hours to several months, depending on the degree of dependence and pharmacokinetic profile of the benzodiazepine. Observe neonates who are exposed to benzodiazepines in utero during the later stages of pregnancy for symptoms of withdrawal and manage appropriately. Benzodiazepines should be withdrawn cautiously and slowly, using a very gradual dosage-tapering schedule.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neonatal abstinence syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, hyperventilation, laryngitis, respiratory depression, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of estazolam, the following respiratory effects were reported in 0.1—1% of patients: asthma (bronchospasm), cough, dyspnea, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included epistaxis, hyperventilation, and laryngitis. At recommended doses, estazolam does not affect respiratory function in healthy patients. Estazolam-induced respiratory depression may be significant in patients with pulmonary disease due to effects on upper respiratory muscles and decreased response to CO2.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperventilation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      laryngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, pruritus, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria
    General Information
    Anaphylactoid reactions (e.g., angioedema) may occur with sedative-hypnotics, such as estazolam, and may become evident as early as the initial dose. Airway obstruction resulting from angioedema of the tongue, glottis, or larynx may be fatal. Other symptoms suggestive of anaphylaxis may include shortness of breath, bronchospasm, skin eruptions, hypotension, and circulatory collapse. Pruritus (1%), allergic reaction (0.1—1%), rash (unspecified) (0.1—1%), and urticaria (0.1—1%) were reported during clinical trial evaluation of estazolam. Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported during post-market use. Patients should be instructed on the appropriate action in the event of an allergic reaction. Treatment with estazolam should not be re-initiated in patients who experience angioedema or other serious reactions such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    coma, respiratory arrest
    General Information
    Manifestations of excessive estazolam dosage or overdose include respiratory depression, confusion, impaired coordination, slurred speech, somnolence, and ultimately, coma. Patients have recovered from estazolam overdose of 40 mg with appropriate supportive care. Respiratory arrest is uncommon in estazolam overdose unless other agents such as ethanol are also consumed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      coma
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory arrest
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    During clinical trials for insomnia, the following musculoskeletal effects or pain symptoms were reported in at least 1% of patients receiving estazolam and more frequently than placebo: musculoskeletal pain/stiffness (1% vs 0%) and lower extremity pain (3% vs 2%). During other clinical trial evaluation, the following musculoskeletal effects were reported in 0.1—1% of patients receiving estazolam: neck pain, upper extremity pain, jaw pain, arthritis, muscle spasm, and myalgia. Arthralgia was reported rarely (< 0.1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, palpitations, syncope
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of estazolam, palpitations were reported in 0.1—1% of patients. Arrhythmia exacerbation and syncope were reported rarely (< 0.1%). Causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, flushing, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, xerosis
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of estazolam, the following dermatologic effects were reported in 0.1—1% of patients: flushing and hyperhidrosis. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included acne vulgaris and xerosis. Photosensitivity has been reported during post-market use. Causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    appetite stimulation, constipation, dysgeusia, enterocolitis, flatulence, gastritis, melena, oral ulceration, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of estazolam, the following gastrointestinal (GI) effects were reported in at least 1% of patients: constipation and xerostomia. GI effects including decreased appetite, flatulence, gastritis, appetite stimulation, dysgeusia, and vomiting were reported in 0.1—1% of patients. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included enterocolitis, melena, and oral ulceration. Causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      appetite stimulation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      enterocolitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      melena
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, leukopenia, purpura
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of estazolam, hematologic effects including leukopenia, purpura, and lymphedema were reported rarely (< 0.1%). Agranulocytosis has been reported during post-market use. Causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    polydipsia, weight gain, weight loss
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of estazolam, thirst (polydipsia) was reported in 0.1—1% of patients. Rare metabolic and nutritional effects (< 0.1%) included weight gain and weight loss. Causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      polydipsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    diplopia, hearing loss, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pain, otalgia, photophobia, scotomata, tinnitus, visual impairment
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of estazolam, the following ophthalmic or otic effects were reported in 0.1—1% of patients: visual impairment, otalgia, ocular irritation, ocular pain, ocular inflammation, photophobia, and tinnitus. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included hearing loss, diplopia, and scotomata. Causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hearing loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular inflammation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      otalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photophobia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      scotomata
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysmenorrhea, hematuria, increased urinary frequency, nocturia, oliguria, urinary incontinence, urinary retention, urinary urgency, vaginal discharge
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of estazolam, the following genitourinary (GU) effects were reported in 0.1—1% of patients: increased urinary frequency, menstrual cramps (dysmenorrhea), urinary hesitancy (urinary retention), urinary urgency, and vaginal discharge/itching. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included hematuria, nocturia, oliguria, penile discharge, and urinary incontinence. Causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysmenorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nocturia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oliguria
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urinary urgency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal discharge
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chills, edema, fever
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of estazolam, the following general effects not listed elsewhere were reported in 0.1—1% of patients: chills and fever. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included edema, swollen breast, and thyroid nodule. Causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Estazolam is an intermediate-acting oral benzodiazepine that is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia. In comparison with flurazepam, estazolam has similar time to effect and efficacy, but a decreased incidence of side effects. Benzodiazepines should generally be prescribed for short periods only due to the potential for dependence and cognitive impairment, and the availability of safer alternatives. The ASAM guidelines recommend re-evaluating the risks and benefits of ongoing benzodiazepine use at least every 3 months; for patients who are candidates for discontinuation, an individualized taper strategy should be used that considers dose, duration, and frequency of use. Due to the risks of dependence, daytime sedation, and possible effects on sleep architecture, the Veteran's Affairs/Departent of Defense (VA/DoD) guidelines suggest against the use of benzodiazepines for the management of chronic insomnia. If possible, avoid coadministration of benzodiazepines and opioids due to the potential for profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death; patients receiving the combination should be monitored for respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, sedative-hypnotic medications have been associated with the development of complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., making phone calls, engaging in sexual activity, eating, or driving while not fully awake). All sedative-hypnotics have the potential to cause sleep-related behaviors; therefore, patients should be informed of the risks prior to receiving any medication from this class. The FDA approved estazolam in December 1990.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Similar to other benzodiazepines, estazolam enhances the effects of the inhibitory neurotransmitter, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) by non-selectively binding to benzodiazepine receptors (BNZ) in the CNS. Three types of BNZ receptors are located in the CNS and other tissues; the BNZ1 receptors are located in the cerebellum and cerebral cortex, the BNZ2 receptors in the cerebral cortex and spinal cord, and the BNZ3 receptors in peripheral tissues. Benzodiazepines bind to the gamma-2 subunit on the GABA-chloride ion channel receptor channel and increase the affinity of GABA for the site. The binding of GABA to the site opens the chloride channel resulting in a hyperpolorized cell membrane that prevents further excitation of the cell. Benzodiazepines alleviate insomnia by decreasing the latency to sleep and increasing sleep continuity and total sleep time.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration, estazolam plasma concentrations peak within 2 hours (range 0.5—6 hours). The duration of action of estazolam ranges from 6—8 hours.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Dosage adjustments of estazolam may be required for patients with hepatic dysfunction.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Dosage adjustments of estazolam may be required for patients with severe renal dysfunction.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    In elderly patients, the range of elimination half-life of estazolam is 13.5—34.6 hours (mean 18.4 hours). Dosage adjustments may be required for geriatric patients.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Smoking Status
The metabolism of estazolam is induced by tobacco smoking.
  Text
  Estazolam is administered orally. As with other benzodiazepines, it is highly protein bound (93%). Estazolam undergoes extensive oxidative metabolism in the liver. In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that the biotransformation to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam is mediated by cytochrome P450 3A. The major metabolite 4'-hydroxy estazolam, with plasma concentrations 12% of those of the parent compound after 8 hours. The hydroxyl-derivative is rapidly conjugated via glucuronidation and excreted renally. While both this metabolite and 1-oxo-estazolam have some pharmacologic activity, their low potencies and low concentrations preclude any significant contribution to the hypnotic effects. The metabolites are renally excreted and less than 5% of the dose is excreted unchanged in the urine. It has an elimination half-life of 10—24 hours (mean 15 hours).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP3A
The metabolism of estazolam to the major circulating metabolite 4-hydroxy-estazolam and the metabolism of other triazolobenzodiazepines appears to be catalyzed by CYP3A based on in vitro data. At clinically relevant concentrations, in vitro studies indicate that estazolam is not inhibitory towards the major cytochrome P450 isoforms CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer just prior to bedtime.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    2 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    2 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; however, dosage adjustments may be needed due to a prolonged half-life of estazolam in patients with hepatic dysfunction.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available. For patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl < 10 mL/min), a dosage reduction of up to 50% may be needed; patients should be closely monitored.
