=== Salsalate (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 555)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Description:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Maximum dosage information is not available.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, gi bleeding, gi perforation, peptic ulcer, pyrosis (heartburn), elevated hepatic enzymes, encephalopathy, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, rash (unspecified), acneiform rash, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, erythema nodosum, maculopapular rash, pruritus, urticaria, azotemia, proteinuria, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis, dehydration, diaphoresis, hyperglycemia, hypernatremia, hyperventilation

In an Overdose: Salsalate should be discontinued if elevated liver-function tests persist or worsen, if signs or symptoms of hepatic disease develop, or if systemic manifestations, such as eosinophilia or rash (unspecified), are present.Dermatologic... Discontinue salsalate at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity.With chronic, high-dose use, analgesic abuse, or salicylate overdose, a marked reduction in creatinine clearance...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Salsalate, like all nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may exacerbate hypertension and congestive heart failure (see Adverse Reactions) and may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. The risk may...

Brand Names
  - Amigesic
  - Argesic-SA
  - Disalcid
  - Mono Gesic
  - Salflex

Dosage Forms
  - Disalcid 750mg Tablet
  - Salsalate 500mg Oral tablet
  - Salsalate 750mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1,500 mg PO twice daily or 1,000 mg PO 3 times per day; titrate dosage according to patient response. Full benefit may not occur for 3 to 4 days.
    Heading
    For treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, or related rheumatic disorder

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Salsalate, like all nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may exacerbate hypertension and congestive heart failure (see Adverse Reactions) and may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. The risk may increase with duration of use, and patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease (e.g., high blood pressure) may be at greater risk. Caution is recommended when administering salsalate to patients with cardiac disease, angina, peripheral vascular disease, cerebrovascular disease (e.g., stroke, transient ischemic attack), pre-existing renal disease, fluid retention, hypertension, or edema. Salicylates should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment and with extreme caution, if at all, in patients with advanced, chronic renal failure, as salicylic acid and its metabolites are excreted in the urine (see Pharmacokinetics). In addition, patients with renal impairment may be at increased risk of developing nephrotoxicity due to salicylate therapy. Renal function should be monitored periodically in patients receiving prolonged or high-dose salicylate therapy, as nephrotoxicity may occur. Prolonged exposure to high doses of salicylates may cause hypokalemia due to both renal and extrarenal losses. Salicylates should be used cautiously in patients with renal disease or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) due to the risk of decreased glomerular filtration rate in these patients. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with renal impairment, renal failure, heart failure, liver dysfunction, hypovolemia (dehydration), those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors, or older patients. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery.Salsalate, like other NSAIDS, is contraindicated for the treatment of peri-operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). An increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke was found through analysis of data regarding the use of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10—14 days after CABG surgery.Salsalate is contraindicated in patients with salicylate hypersensitivity or NSAID hypersensitivity who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or other allergic reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactoid reactions to salsalate have been reported in such patients. Salsalate should not be used in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma or the aspirin triad because of the approximate 5% cross-sensitivity that occurs between aspirin and NSAIDs. The triad typically occurs in patients with asthma who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps or who experience severe, potentially fatal, acute bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. However, salsalate is less likely than aspirin to induce asthma in aspirin-sensitive patients. Among 10 patients with confirmed asthmatic reactions to aspirin, 2 had an asthmatic reaction after 2000 mg PO of salsalate; the reaction was confirmed by a second salsalate challenge.Salsalate can cause gastritis, ulceration with or without perforation, and/or GI bleeding, which can occur at any time, often without preceding symptoms. Non-acetylated salicylates should be used with extreme caution in patients with a history of or active GI disease including erosive gastritis, esophagitis, GI bleeding, peptic ulcer disease, or previous NSAID-induced bleeding. Patients at increased risk for NSAID-induced GI bleeding include those receiving concurrent myelosuppressive chemotherapy, corticosteroid therapy, or anticoagulant therapy, tobacco smoking patients, and patients with alcoholism. Older patients seem to tolerate GI ulceration or bleeding less well than younger patients. Most fatal GI events occur in older or debilitated patients. In patients who develop gastric or duodenal ulcers during salicylate treatment, the drug should be discontinued due to an increased risk of bleeding and/or perforation. Anemia may be exacerbated during salicylate therapy due to GI blood loss. Hematocrit should be monitored periodically in patients receiving prolonged or high-dose salicylate therapy, as iron deficiency anemia may occur. In addition, patients should not receive salicylates if they consume 3 or more alcoholic beverages per day because of the potential increased risk for GI bleeding. Closely monitor all patients for potential GI ulceration and bleeding (see Adverse Reactions).Carefully monitor patients with hypoprothrombinemia, vitamin K deficiency, coagulopathy (e.g., hemophilia), severe hepatic impairment due to hepatic disease, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), or patients receiving anticoagulant therapy or thrombolytic therapy (see Drug Interactions) who take salsalate. If salicylate therapy is required, non-acetylated salicylates are preferred in these patients because of the lack of platelet effects. No changes in bleeding time or in platelet aggregation response to adenosine diphosphate or collagen occurred in either healthy patients or patients with hemophilia A who got salsalate. As salicylates may cause or aggravate hemolysis in patients with pyruvate kinase deficiency or rare variants of G6PD deficiency, these drugs should be avoided in these patients. Because of an increased risk of hepatotoxicity, liver function tests should be monitored in patients who are receiving high doses of salicylates and have juvenile arthritis, rheumatic fever, or pre-existing hepatic disease/impairment. Salsalate should be discontinued if elevated hepatic enzymes persist or worsen or if signs or symptoms of hepatic disease such as jaundice develop (see Adverse Reactions).Salicylates should be used with caution in patients with immunosuppression or neutropenia following myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Salicylates may mask the signs of infection such as fever or pain in patients with bone marrow suppression.Elderly patients may be at increased risk of salicylate toxicity possibly due to decreased renal function. Elderly patients seem to tolerate GI ulceration or bleeding less well than younger individuals and many spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in this population. Elderly patients at the highest risk for the development of gastric or duodenal ulcers are those using both NSAIDs and corticosteroids, with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease or NSAID-related GI bleeding, high-dose NSAID therapy, complaints of dyspepsia, and those with concurrent disease states that increase their risk of mortality from a GI bleed or perforation. In addition, elderly patients are more likely to have concomitant disease states that may exacerbate salicylate-induced renal changes. Care should be taken in dose selection and the lowest effective dose should be used in patients at risk. After initiating salicylate therapy, elderly patients should be monitored for the development of pedal edema, rales, blood pressure elevation, or changes in creatinine or BUN concentrations. Monitoring of stool for occult blood, serum magnesium and potassium concentrations, and a complete blood count should be considered at baseline and periodically during chronic salicylate therapy.Sodium-restricted patients or patients with hypovolemic states (e.g., ascites, dehydration, heart failure, hypertension, or hypovolemia) may be more susceptible to adverse renal effects of salicylate therapy. In patients with carditis, high doses of salicylates may precipitate congestive heart failure or pulmonary edema.The respiratory effects of salicylates may contribute to serious acid/base imbalance in patients with underlying acid/base disorders (e.g., metabolic acidosis, metabolic alkalosis, respiratory acidosis, or respiratory alkalosis) or in overdose situations. Patients who are unable to compensate for salicylate-induced metabolic acidosis (i.e., respiratory response to CO2 is depressed) will develop respiratory acidosis and increased concentrations of plasma CO2.In patients with gout, salicylates may increase serum uric acid concentrations, resulting in hyperuricemia, and interfere with the efficacy of uricosuric agents.Salsalate is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C; there are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Salicylic acid does cross the placenta. Salicylates have been shown to be teratogenic and embryocidal in animals. Due to the inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, adverse effects to the fetus, such as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus, can occur. Salicylates should be avoided during the last 3 months of pregnancy (FDA pregnancy category D) and should only be used at another time during pregnancy if the potential benefits justify the potential risks. Chronic, high-dose salicylate therapy late in pregnancy may result in prolonged labor and delivery complications. Further, the risk of maternal and fetal hemorrhage may be increased. The effects of salsalate on labor and obstetric delivery are unknown.Salsalate excretion in human milk is unknown, but the primary metabolite of salsalate, salicylic acid, is distributed into breast milk, and concentrations of salicylic acid approximate the maternal blood concentration. A breast fed baby might ingest 30—80% as much salicylate per kg of body weight as the mother is taking. Salsalate should be administered with caution to women who are breast-feeding their infants.The safety and efficacy of salsalate in children have not been established. Also, because of the risk of Reye's syndrome, salicylates should not used in febrile children or adolescents until the possibility of influenza-like or varicella infection has been eliminated. Current evidence suggests that acetylated salicylates such as aspirin are associated with this complication; aspirin has been associated with the occurrence of Reye's syndrome when given to children with varicella (chickenpox) or influenza (flu). Although a causal relationship has not been confirmed, most authorities advise against the use of salicylates in children with varicella, influenza, or other viral infection. In addition, it is recommended that pediatric patients not be given salicylates for 6 weeks after receiving varicella vaccination.False hypothyroidism based on thyroid function test results may be noted in patients who take salsalate. Salsalate displaces thyroid hormones from transport proteins. Specifically, salsalate (1.5—3 g per day) inhibits the binding of T4 and T3 to thyroxine binding globulin. The initial effect is an increase in serum free T4 concentrations, which reduces TSH concentrations and leads to a reduction in T4 and T3. The TSH concentration normalizes, but the T4 and T3 concentrations may remain low. Receipt of salsalate 1000 mg qid for 7 days led to a mean reduction in total T4 of 45%, of free T4 of 39%, of total T3 of 51%, and of free T3 of 50%; reductions of all measurements were significant from baseline from at least day 3 through day 7. However, free T3 and T4 concentrations may be underestimated because of the assay methods. As TSH is an indirect gauge of free T3 and T4 concentrations and because TSH concentrations were never below the normal range and were only significantly lower from baseline on days 2 and 3, use of the TSH concentration may be best screening test for thyroid disease in a patient who is taking salsalate.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    cardiovascular disease, coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG), serious cardiovascular events
    General Information
    Salsalate is contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). An increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke was found in clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days after CABG surgery. NSAIDs may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events, which can be fatall. Guidelines recommend against NSAID use in individuals presenting with and hospitalized for ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) due to increased risk of mortality and cardiovascular (CV) complications associated with their use. Avoid NSAID use in individuals with a recent myocardial infarction unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If an NSAID is used in individuals with a recent myocardial infarction, monitor for signs of cardiac ischemia. Observational data from a national registry demonstrated that individuals treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning the first week of treatment. An increased relative risk of death in NSAID users continued during the follow-up period of 4 years. Data demonstrate that individuals treated with NSAIDs were more likely to die in the first year after a myocardial infarction compared to those not treated with NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease; however, individuals with known cardiovascular disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment with an NSAID; the increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. Current evidence is insufficient to determine if the risk of an event is higher or lower for any particular NSAID compared to other NSAIDs. There is no consistent evidence that concomitant use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk for CV thrombotic events. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated individuals, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible; remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. NSAIDs may worsen pre-existing hypertension, which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Monitor blood pressure during NSAID treatment initiation and throughout therapy. Avoid NSAID use in individuals with severe heart failure, unless the benefits of treatment are expected to outweigh the risks. Monitor for signs of worsening heart failure if an NSAID is used in individuals with severe heart failure. Monitor renal function in individuals with heart failure during use of an NSAID. Data demonstrate an increased risk for myocardial infarction, hospitalization for heart failure, and death with NSAID use in individuals with heart failure.
    Headline
    aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, asthma
    General Information
    Salsalate is contraindicated in individuals with aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps, severe and potentially fatal acute bronchospasm, and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Although cross reactivity, including bronchospasm, has been reported occasionally with non-acetylated salicylates, including salsalate, in aspirin-sensitive individuals, salsalate is less likely than aspirin to induce asthma in such individuals. When an NSAID is used in individuals with pre-existing asthma without known aspirin sensitivity, monitor for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma.
    Headline
    bleeding disorder, ethanol ingestion, GI bleeding, peptic ulcer disease, serious gastrointestinal events, tobacco smoking
    General Information
    Individuals with a prior history of GI bleeding and/or peptic ulcer disease who use NSAIDs had a more than 10-fold increased risk of developing a GI bleed compared to individuals without these risk factors. Individuals with advanced hepatic disease or bleeding disorder are also at increased risk for GI bleeding. Other risk factors for GI bleeding in individuals receiving NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy, concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or SSRIs, tobacco smoking, ethanol ingestion, older age, and poor general health status. Coadministration with certain medications, specifically aspirin or other NSAIDs, is contraindicated due to the cumulative risk of inducing serious NSAID-related adverse events; concomitant use of ketorolac with aspirin or other NSAIDs increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy. Serious gastrointestinal events, including bleeding, inflammation, perforation, and ulceration, can occur at any time and without warning symptoms in individuals receiving NSAIDs. To minimize the risk of an adverse GI event in NSAID-treated individuals, use the lowest effective NSAID dose for the shortest possible duration. Avoid concurrent administration of other NSAIDs; in the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor more closely for evidence of GI bleeding. Avoid NSAID use in individuals at higher risk for GI adverse events unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased bleeding risk, and consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs for those individuals and individuals with active GI bleeding. Monitor individuals for signs and symptoms of GI bleeding and ulceration during NSAID therapy.
    Headline
    influenza, varicella
    General Information
    Do not use salsalate in pediatric populations who have or are recovering from varicella (chicken pox), influenza, or influenza-like symptoms due to the risk of Reye syndrome.
    Headline
    hepatic disease
    General Information
    Monitor renal function in individuals with hepatic impairment during use of an NSAID. NSAID use in individuals with hepatic failure in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion may precipitate renal decompensation. Advanced hepatic disease is also a risk factor for GI bleeding in individuals who use NSAIDs.
    Headline
    hypovolemia, renal disease
    General Information
    Salsalate is not recommended in individuals with advanced renal disease. Avoid NSAID use in individuals with advanced renal disease, unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risks of worsening renal function. If an NSAID is used in individuals with advanced renal disease, monitor for signs and symptoms of worsening renal function. Correct volume status in individuals with dehydration or hypovolemia prior to starting an NSAID. Monitor renal function in individuals with renal impairment, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of an NSAID. NSAID use in individuals with renal impairment, dehydration, or hypovolemia in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion may precipitate renal decompensation. The renal effects of NSAIDs may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in individuals with pre-existing renal disease.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Geriatric adults, compared to younger individuals, are at greater risk for NSAID-associated serious cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and/or renal adverse reactions. If the anticipated benefit for the older adult outweighs these potential risks, start NSAID dosing at the low end of the dosing range, and monitor for adverse effects. According to the Beers Criteria, NSAIDs are considered potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in geriatric adults. There is an increased risk of GI bleeding and peptic ulcer disease in high-risk groups including those older than 75 years, or those taking systemic corticosteroids, anticoagulants, or antiplatelet medications. The risk of GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation is cumulative with continued use. Avoid the chronic use of NSAIDs in high-risk individuals, including those with a history of gastric or duodenal ulcers, unless other alternatives are not effective, and the individual can take a gastroprotective agent. The use of a gastroprotective agent, like a proton pump inhibitor or misoprostol, reduces but does not eliminate GI risks. NSAIDs may also increase blood pressure and induce kidney injury. Avoid use of NSAIDs in geriatric adults with the following conditions due to the potential for symptom exacerbation or adverse effects: symptomatic heart failure (fluid retention, symptom exacerbation) or chronic kidney disease Stage 4 or higher (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) (acute kidney injury, further decline of renal function). Use with caution in individuals with asymptomatic heart failure.
    Headline
    labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of NSAIDs, such as salsalate, during pregnancy starting at 30 weeks gestation due to the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. When use is necessary between 20 and 30 weeks gestation, limit use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if treatment exceeds 48 hours. Discontinue the NSAID if oligohydramnios develops, and follow up according to clinical practice. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks gestation and later may also cause fetal renal dysfunction, leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some cases, invasive neonatal procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis have been required. Observational data regarding other potential embryo-fetal risks of NSAID use during the first or second trimesters are inconclusive. Animal studies indicate that prostaglandins play an important role in endometrial blood flow, embryo implantation, and fetal kidney development. Inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis has been associated with increased pre- and post-implantation loss and impaired kidney development in animals at NSAID doses relevant to clinical use. Salicylates have also been associated with alterations in maternal and neonatal hemostasis mechanisms, decreased birth weight, and perinatal mortality. Avoid the use of salicylates near term and during labor and obstetric delivery due to the potential for excessive blood loss at delivery. Prolonged gestation and labor due to prostaglandin inhibition have been reported.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with salsalate. NSAIDs may delay or prevent prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in people who may become pregnant who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use salsalate with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known whether salsalate is excreted in human milk; however, the primary metabolite of salsalate, salicylic acid, is distributed into human milk in concentrations approximating the maternal blood concentration. The breast-feeding child may potentially ingest 30% to 80% as much salicylate per kg of body weight as breast-feeding individual is taking. Alternative agents, such as acetaminophen and ibuprofen, are preferred.
    Headline
    adolescents, children, infants
    General Information
    The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes salsalate as a potentially inappropriate medication for use in infants, children, and adolescents with suspicion of a viral illness and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use salsalate with caution and appropriate monitoring.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of NSAIDs, such as salsalate, during pregnancy starting at 30 weeks gestation due to the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. When use is necessary between 20 and 30 weeks gestation, limit use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if treatment exceeds 48 hours. Discontinue the NSAID if oligohydramnios develops, and follow up according to clinical practice. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks gestation and later may also cause fetal renal dysfunction, leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some cases, invasive neonatal procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis have been required. Observational data regarding other potential embryo-fetal risks of NSAID use during the first or second trimesters are inconclusive. Animal studies indicate that prostaglandins play an important role in endometrial blood flow, embryo implantation, and fetal kidney development. Inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis has been associated with increased pre- and post-implantation loss and impaired kidney development in animals at NSAID doses relevant to clinical use. Salicylates have also been associated with alterations in maternal and neonatal hemostasis mechanisms, decreased birth weight, and perinatal mortality. Avoid the use of salicylates near term and during labor and obstetric delivery due to the potential for excessive blood loss at delivery. Prolonged gestation and labor due to prostaglandin inhibition have been reported.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors whenever possible. There were reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death with high-dose aspirin and acetazolamide. Two mechanisms could cause increased acetazolamide concentrations, resulting in CNS depression and metabolic acidosis: first, competition with aspirin for renal tubular secretion and, second, displacement by salicylates from plasma protein binding sites. Additionally, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors alkalinize urine and increase the excretion of normal doses of salicylates; decreased plasma salicylate concentrations may or may not be clinically significant.
Acetohydroxamic Acid: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Acidifying Agents: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Amikacin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aminoglycosides: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Concurrent use of salsalate and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risks of bleeding and nephrotoxicity. Concurrent use of salsalate and NSAIDs does not produce greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Amoxicillin: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Amoxicillin; Clavulanic Acid: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B: (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Ampicillin: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Large doses of salicylates (more than 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and antithrombin III should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Apixaban: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin C: (Minor) Agents that acidify the urine should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urinary pH changes can decrease salicylate excretion. If the urine is acidic prior to administration of an acidifying agent, the interaction should be minimal.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bacitracin: (Minor) Additive nephrotoxicity may occur with concurrent use of systemic bacitracin and other nephrotoxic agents, including salicylates. Topical administration of any preparation containing bacitracin, especially when applied to large surface areas, also should not be given with other drugs that have a nephrotoxic potential.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects and reduced efficacy of both medications if concomitant use of bromocriptine and a salicylate is necessary. Both medications are highly protein-bound and concomitant use may increase the unbound fraction of drug in circulation increasing the risk for adverse effects or enhancing drug elimination and reducing overall drug exposure.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of meloxicam with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Capreomycin: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Captopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Cefixime: (Minor) In vitro, salicylates have displaced cefixime from its protein-binding sites, resulting in a 50% increase in free cefixime levels. The clinical significance of this effect is unclear at this time.
cefoTEtan: (Minor) Cefotetan has been associated with hypoprothrombinemia and may cause additive effects when given concurrently with salicylates.
Celecoxib: (Major) Concurrent use of salsalate and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risks of bleeding and nephrotoxicity. Concurrent use of salsalate and NSAIDs does not produce greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concurrent use of salsalate and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risks of bleeding and nephrotoxicity. Concurrent use of salsalate and NSAIDs does not produce greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant administration of cidofovir and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as salsalate, is contraindicated due to the potential for increased nephrotoxicity. NSAIDs should be discontinued 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Citalopram: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, or other salicylates which affect, hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation. A cohort study in over 26,000 patients found that SSRI use alone increased the risk for serious GI bleed by 3.6-fold; when an SSRI was combined with aspirin the risk was increased by over 5-fold. The absolute risk of GI bleed from concomitant therapy with aspirin and a SSRI was low (20/2640 patients) in this cohort study and the clinician may determine that the combined use of these drugs is appropriate.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Colistin: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
cycloSPORINE: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like cyclosporine may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Dabigatran: (Major) Educate patients about the signs of increased bleeding and the need to report these signs to a healthcare provider immediately if coadministration of dabigatran and aspirin or another salicylate is necessary. Dabigatran can cause significant and, sometimes, fatal bleeding. This risk may be increased by concurrent use of chronic salicylate therapy.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including salicylates.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and salsalate together with caution as both drugs can cause metabolic acidosis. Concurrent use may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Diclofenac: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of diclofenac with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of diclofenac with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Dicloxacillin: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Diflunisal: (Major) The concurrent use of diflunisal and salicylates is not recommended due to the increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity with little or no increase in anti-inflammatory efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of naproxen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Edoxaban: (Moderate) Patients taking large doses of salicylates and edoxaban should be monitored closely for bleeding. Large doses of salicylates (3 g to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, or other salicylates which affect, hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation. A cohort study in over 26,000 patients found that SSRI use alone increased the risk for serious GI bleed by 3.6-fold; when an SSRI was combined with aspirin the risk was increased by over 5-fold. The absolute risk of GI bleed from concomitant therapy with aspirin and a SSRI was low (20/2640 patients) in this cohort study and the clinician may determine that the combined use of these drugs is appropriate.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Ethanol: (Major) Concomitant ingestion of alcohol with salicylates, especially aspirin, ASA, increases the risk of developing gastric irritation and GI mucosal bleeding. Alcohol and salicylates are mucosal irritants and aspirin decreases platelet aggregation. Routine ingestion of alcohol and aspirin can cause significant GI bleeding, which may or may not be overt. Even occasional concomitant use of salicylates and alcohol should be avoided. Chronic ingestion of alcohol is often associated with hypoprothrombinemia and this condition increases the risk of salicylate-induced bleeding. Patients should be warned regarding the potential for increased risk of GI bleeding if alcohol-containing beverages are taken concurrently with salicylates.
Etodolac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Fenoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, or other salicylates which affect, hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation. A cohort study in over 26,000 patients found that SSRI use alone increased the risk for serious GI bleed by 3.6-fold; when an SSRI was combined with aspirin the risk was increased by over 5-fold. The absolute risk of GI bleed from concomitant therapy with aspirin and a SSRI was low (20/2640 patients) in this cohort study and the clinician may determine that the combined use of these drugs is appropriate.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, or other salicylates which affect, hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation. A cohort study in over 26,000 patients found that SSRI use alone increased the risk for serious GI bleed by 3.6-fold; when an SSRI was combined with aspirin the risk was increased by over 5-fold. The absolute risk of GI bleed from concomitant therapy with aspirin and a SSRI was low (20/2640 patients) in this cohort study and the clinician may determine that the combined use of these drugs is appropriate.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with fondaparinux. Data on the concomitant use of fondaparinux with aspirin are lacking; however, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Foscarnet: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as foscarnet, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Fosphenytoin: (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Fosphenytoin is converted to phenytoin in vivo, so this interaction may also occur with fosphenytoin.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Gentamicin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) If salicylates and sulfonylureas are to be administered together, patients should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of other antidiabetic agents. This mechanism may explain how salicylates can potentiate the clinical effects of sulfonylureas; however, displacement of sulfonylureas from protein binding sites has also been reported. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) If salicylates and sulfonylureas are to be administered together, patients should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of other antidiabetic agents. This mechanism may explain how salicylates can potentiate the clinical effects of sulfonylureas; however, displacement of sulfonylureas from protein binding sites has also been reported. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) If salicylates and sulfonylureas are to be administered together, patients should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of other antidiabetic agents. This mechanism may explain how salicylates can potentiate the clinical effects of sulfonylureas; however, displacement of sulfonylureas from protein binding sites has also been reported. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) If salicylates and sulfonylureas are to be administered together, patients should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of other antidiabetic agents. This mechanism may explain how salicylates can potentiate the clinical effects of sulfonylureas; however, displacement of sulfonylureas from protein binding sites has also been reported. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) If salicylates and sulfonylureas are to be administered together, patients should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of other antidiabetic agents. This mechanism may explain how salicylates can potentiate the clinical effects of sulfonylureas; however, displacement of sulfonylureas from protein binding sites has also been reported. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Griseofulvin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of griseofulvin with salicylates may result in decreased salicylate serum concentrations. Caution and close monitoring for changes in the effectiveness of the salicylate are recommended.
Heparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin). Despite the potential drug-drug interaction between aspirin and heparin, heparin is frequently administered in combination with low-dose aspirin therapy to patients who have had an acute myocardial infarction and in other disease states. In addition, large doses of salicylates (at least 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and salicylates due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity as well as the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of salicylates in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ketoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Ketorolac: (Contraindicated) Ketorolac is contraindicated in patients currently receiving salicylates due to increased risk of serious NSAID-related adverse events, including gastrointestinal bleeding, ulceration, and perforation.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Lithium: (Moderate) NSAIDs interfere with lithium excretion and may lead to elevated lithium serum concentrations. If NSAID therapy is started or stopped in a patient stabilized on lithium, monitor for evidence of lithium toxicity or decreased clinical effects, respectively.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Low Molecular Weight Heparins: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Mafenide: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Mannitol: (Major) In general, avoid use of mannitol and salicylates. Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs, such as the salicylates, increases the risk of renal failure after administration of mannitol. However, mannitol promotes the urinary excretion of salicylates, and may be used as an adjunct in salicylate intoxication.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Increased adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects are possible if mefenamic acid is used with salicylates. In addition, concomitant administration of salicylates and mefenamic acid may result in an increase in unbound plasma concentrations of either drug, which could result in greater adverse effects. In general, concomitant use of aspirin and mefenamic acid is not recommended.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Meloxicam: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of meloxicam with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of meloxicam with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
methazolAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, like methazolamide, whenever possible. The combination yielded reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death. The mechanism appears to be accumulation of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, resulting in increased CNS depression and metabolic acidosis. The acidosis may allow greater CNS penetration of the salicylate.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Methotrexate: (Major) Do not administer salicylates before or concomitantly with high doses of methotrexate, such as used in the treatment of osteosarcoma. Concomitant administration of some NSAIDs with high dose methotrexate therapy has been reported to elevate and prolong serum methotrexate concentrations, resulting in deaths from severe hematologic and gastrointestinal toxicity. Use caution when salicylates are administered concomitantly with lower doses of methotrexate. Salicylates have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model and may enhance its toxicity. Methotrexate is partially bound to serum albumin, and toxicity may be increased because of displacement by salicylates.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Mycophenolic acid is more than 98% bound to albumin. Concurrent use of mycophenolate with salicylates can decrease the protein binding of mycophenolic acid resulting in an increase in the free fraction of MPA. Patients should be observed for increased clinical effects from mycophenolate as well as additive adverse effects.
Nabumetone: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Nafcillin: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Naproxen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of naproxen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of naproxen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of naproxen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Nitazoxanide: (Moderate) The active metabolite of nitazoxanide, tizoxanide, is highly bound to plasma proteins. Caution should be exercised when administering nitazoxanide concurrently with other highly plasma protein-bound drugs with narrow therapeutic indices because competition for binding sites may occur.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, or other salicylates which affect, hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation. A cohort study in over 26,000 patients found that SSRI use alone increased the risk for serious GI bleed by 3.6-fold; when an SSRI was combined with aspirin the risk was increased by over 5-fold. The absolute risk of GI bleed from concomitant therapy with aspirin and a SSRI was low (20/2640 patients) in this cohort study and the clinician may determine that the combined use of these drugs is appropriate.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Oxacillin: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Oxaprozin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Paromomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, or other salicylates which affect, hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation. A cohort study in over 26,000 patients found that SSRI use alone increased the risk for serious GI bleed by 3.6-fold; when an SSRI was combined with aspirin the risk was increased by over 5-fold. The absolute risk of GI bleed from concomitant therapy with aspirin and a SSRI was low (20/2640 patients) in this cohort study and the clinician may determine that the combined use of these drugs is appropriate.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Penicillin G Benzathine: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Penicillin G: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Penicillin V: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Penicillins: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Phenytoin: (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Displacement of phenytoin from binding sites can lead to a decrease in the total phenytoin serum concentration. Close monitoring for excessive phenytoin toxicity or decreased phenytoin efficacy is recommended.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) If salicylates and sulfonylureas are to be administered together, patients should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of other antidiabetic agents. This mechanism may explain how salicylates can potentiate the clinical effects of sulfonylureas; however, displacement of sulfonylureas from protein binding sites has also been reported. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Piroxicam: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Pivmecillinam: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Plazomicin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Salicylates can indirectly increase insulin secretion, and thus decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates may cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Primidone: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Psyllium: (Moderate) Psyllium can interfere with the absorption of certain oral drugs if administered concomitantly. For example, psyllium fiber can adsorb salicylates. Per the psyllium manufacturers, administration of other prescribed oral drugs should be separated from the administration of psyllium by at least 2 hours.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Salicylates such as aspirin are known to increase bleeding, and bleeding risk may be increased when these drugs are used concomitantly with rivaroxaban. The safety of long-term concomitant use of these drugs has not been studied. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding or blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with salicylates. In a single-dose drug interaction study, no pharmacokinetic interactions were observed after concomitant administration of acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin, ASA) with rivaroxaban.
Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, or other salicylates which affect, hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation. A cohort study in over 26,000 patients found that SSRI use alone increased the risk for serious GI bleed by 3.6-fold; when an SSRI was combined with aspirin the risk was increased by over 5-fold. The absolute risk of GI bleed from concomitant therapy with aspirin and a SSRI was low (20/2640 patients) in this cohort study and the clinician may determine that the combined use of these drugs is appropriate.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Sertraline: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, or other salicylates which affect, hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation. A cohort study in over 26,000 patients found that SSRI use alone increased the risk for serious GI bleed by 3.6-fold; when an SSRI was combined with aspirin the risk was increased by over 5-fold. The absolute risk of GI bleed from concomitant therapy with aspirin and a SSRI was low (20/2640 patients) in this cohort study and the clinician may determine that the combined use of these drugs is appropriate.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sodium Benzoate; Sodium Phenylacetate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Thiosulfate; Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Streptomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
sulfADIAZINE: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
sulfaSALAzine: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonamides: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) If salicylates and sulfonylureas are to be administered together, patients should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of other antidiabetic agents. This mechanism may explain how salicylates can potentiate the clinical effects of sulfonylureas; however, displacement of sulfonylureas from protein binding sites has also been reported. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria.
Sulindac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of naproxen with salsalate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Tacrolimus, in the absence of overt renal impairment, may adversely affect renal function. Care should be taken in using tacrolimus with other nephrotoxic drugs, such as salicylates.
Telavancin: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Thrombin Inhibitors: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with salsalate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Tobramycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Tolmetin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant trazodone and salicylate use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors are coadministered with another anticoagulant.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Concurrent salicylate therapy can increase the free-fraction of valproic acid, causing possible valproic acid toxicity. Valproic acid levels should be monitored when these agents are used concomitantly.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Vancomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as vancomycin, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with salicylates or other platelet inhibitors and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors).
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as penicillins. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Coadministration of salicylates and warfarin may result in an increased risk of bleeding. Salicylates may displace warfarin from protein binding sites leading to increased anticoagulation effects. Hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding, also has been reported with salicylates. Non-acetylated salicylates do not appear to affect platelet aggregation in the same manner as aspirin and are associated with a lower risk of bleeding when given currently with warfarin. If salicylates and warfarin are coadministered, monitor the patient for signs or symptoms of bleeding.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The most common adverse reactions to salsalate are GI-related. Frequently reported gastrointestinal reactions (up to 30% of patients) include nausea/vomiting, dyspepsia, pyrosis (heartburn), diarrhea, constipation, and abdominal pain. Symptoms of gastric distress can be reduced if salicylates are taken with food or a full glass of water. Gastrointestinal irritation and GI bleeding are less likely to occur with non-acetylated salicylates than with aspirin; treatment discontinuation is usually not needed. GI complications, such as peptic ulcer and erosive gastritis, occur in fewer than 1% of patients, may not be preceded by early GI manifestations, and are more likely to develop after concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause these adverse reactions. The risk of severe GI events is increased by the presence of the following factors: history of peptic ulcer disease or GI bleed, smoking, alcohol usage, concomitant usage of anticoagulants or oral corticosteroids, older age, poor general health status, and NSAID duration of use. Gastric or peptic ulcers up to 1 cm in diameter induced by salicylates may heal despite continued therapy when oral cimetidine or high dose antacids are used concomitantly. GI bleeding is more common with aspirin than with other salicylates and is not reduced by administering aspirin with food. Prolonged high dosages also can contribute to GI irritation. Older patients appear to be greater affected by GI ulceration or bleeding; most fatal GI events occur in older or debilitated patients. Occult GI bleeding occurs in many patients and is not necessarily correlated with GI distress. While the amount of blood lost is usually not significant, blood loss can result in iron deficiency anemia. Patients on prolonged therapy should undergo regular blood monitoring. Use of the lowest salsalate effective dose for the shortest duration possible is recommended to minimize the potential for an adverse gastrointestinal event. Consider a therapy besides a NSAID for high-risk patients.Salsalate may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. The risk may increase with duration of use, and patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk (see Contraindications). All NSAIDs, both COX-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent aspirin use mitigates the increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events associated with NSAID use (see Interactions). Rofecoxib, a COX-2 inhibitor, has been pulled from the US market due to an observed increased risk for serious cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction and strokes. Use of the lowest salsalate effective dose for the shortest duration possible is recommended to minimize the potential for an adverse cardiovascular event.Tinnitus and hearing loss may occur in patients receiving high-dose and/or long-term salicylate therapy. These effects are associated with early manifestations of salicylate toxicity. Tinnitus and hearing loss are usually dose-related and reversible upon dose reduction or discontinuation. Tinnitus is commonly associated with salicylic acid levels > 200—300 mcg/ml. Maximum hearing loss occurs most frequently at salicylic acid levels of >= 400 mcg/ml.Salsalate can cause or exacerbate hypertension. Mean blood pressure measurements in a man before salsalate 1500 mg twice daily were 127 +/- 7 over 84 +/- 6 mmHg. In contrast, the mean measurements were 150 +/- 13 over 95 +/- 5 mmHg during salsalate receipt and 119 +/- 2 over 81 +/- 2 mmHg after drug discontinuation. Multiple blood pressure measurements were taken before, during, and after salsalate use, and the patient had no changes in medications or medication doses with the exception of warfarin. Further, the patient's weight was stable, and no other cause for the hypertension was identified. Closely monitor the patient's blood pressure during salsalate initiation and throughout the therapy course.Salicylates may cause reversible hepatotoxicity primarily manifested as mild focal hepatic necrosis and portal hypertension with elevated hepatic enzymes (usually transaminases) and hyperbilirubinemia. Jaundice has been reported in some patients. Rarely, salicylates are associated with hypoprothrombinemia resulting in a prolonged prothrombin time. Rarely salicylates have been associated with chronic hepatitis. Usually salicylate-induced hepatotoxicity is mild, but rarely fatalities or hepatic encephalopathy have occurred. Patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs should have their CBC and a chemistry profile checked periodically. Salsalate should be discontinued if elevated liver-function tests persist or worsen, if signs or symptoms of hepatic disease develop, or if systemic manifestations, such as eosinophilia or rash (unspecified), are present.Dermatologic reactions are uncommon; usually reported in patients who receive salicylate therapy for > 1 week continually or with overdosage. These reactions include acneiform rash, erythema nodosum maculopapular rash, pruritus, and urticaria. Anaphylactoid reactions, including angioedema and acute bronchospasm, may occur with salicylate therapy. As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to salsalate. Allergic reactions to salsalate are more likely in patients with asthma; salsalate is contraindicated for use in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma or the aspirin triad because of the approximate 5% cross-sensitivity that occurs between aspirin and NSAIDs. The triad typically occurs in patients with asthma who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who experience severe, potentially fatal, acute bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Discontinue salsalate at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity.With chronic, high-dose use, analgesic abuse, or salicylate overdose, a marked reduction in creatinine clearance, renal papillary necrosis, or renal tubular necrosis with renal failure may be seen; however, in usual doses, salicylates rarely cause clinically significant renal effects in patients with normal renal function. Salicylates may cause transient urinary excretion of renal tubular epithelial cells, azotemia (increases in BUN), albuminuria, and proteinuria. Vasodilatory renal prostaglandins and the potent vasoconstrictor angiotensin II work in concert to maintain renal blood flow. Inhibition of renal prostaglandins by NSAIDs can cause renal insufficiency and thus, fluid retention. Overt renal decompensation due to a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, thus, renal blood flow is usually reversed with NSAID discontinuation. Monitoring of the patient's fluid status and serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen concentrations is recommended. If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with renal disease develop, discontinue salsalate.Salicylates have dose-dependent effects on plasma uric acid levels. At low doses (1—2 g/day) decreased urate excretion and hyperuricemia may be seen. Intermediate salicylate doses (2—3 g/day) usually do not alter urate excretion, and large doses of salicylates (> 5 g/day) induce uricosuria and lower plasma uric acid levels. Small doses of salicylates can block the effects of probenecid and other uricosuric agents that decrease the tubular reabsorption of uric acid.At therapeutic doses, salicylates cause changes in acid/base balance and electrolytes resulting in respiratory alkalosis. In patients with normal renal and respiratory function, this is usually compensated for appropriately. Severe acid/base disturbances may occur during salicylate toxicity. Infants and children with salicylate toxicity rarely present clinically with respiratory alkalosis. As salicylate toxicity progresses, changes resembling metabolic acidosis are present (e.g., low blood pH, low plasma bicarbonate levels, and normal or nearly normal plasma PaCO2). In reality, a combination of respiratory acidosis and metabolic acidosis is present. Alterations in water and electrolyte balance also occur in salicylate toxicity. Dehydration due to salicylate-induced diaphoresis and hyperventilation occurs. Since more water than electrolytes are loss, dehydration is associated with hypernatremia. Other laboratory changes noted in salicylate toxicity include hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia (especially in children), ketonuria, hypokalemia, and proteinuria. Prolonged exposure to high doses of salicylates also causes hypokalemia through both renal and nonrenal losses. Hyperventilation occurs due to direct stimulation of the respiratory center in the medulla. At high salicylate plasma concentrations (>= 350 mcg/ml), marked hyperventilation will occur and at serum concentrations of about 500 mcg/ml, hyperpnea will be seen. At high or prolonged doses, salicylates also have a depressant effect on the medulla. Toxic doses of salicylates cause central respiratory depression as well as cardiovascular collapse secondary to vasomotor depression. Since enhanced CO2 production continues, respiratory acidosis occurs.During acute or chronic salicylic acid toxicity, moderate-to-severe noncardiogenic pulmonary edema may occur.Vertigo has been reported with salsalate. Dizziness, drowsiness, headache, lightheadedness, and lethargy may be signs of salicylism, mild salicylate toxicity. Other symptoms of salicylism include uncontrollable flapping movements of the hands, increased thirst, and visual impairment. In severe overdose, seizures, hallucinations, severe nervousness, excitement, confusion, wheezing or shortness of breath, and unexplained fever may occur. In young children the only signs of overdose may be behavior changes.Leukopenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, purpura, and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) have been reported rarely with salicylates. Leukocytosis has occurred in patients with salicylate overdose. Non-acetylated salicylates do not affect platelet aggregation and do not increase bleeding time.Administration of salicylates to children with viral illnesses has been suspected of causing Reye's syndrome, a multisystem disorder evidenced by persistent vomiting, altered sensorium, elevated hepatic enzymes, hypoprothrombinemia, and hyperammonemia.A lichen planus-like eruption developed in a patient 1 month after salsalate initiation and cleared within 3 weeks of salsalate discontinuation. The papules were distributed symmetrically primarily over his back and chest and were diffuse, scaling, pruritic, violaceous, and polygonal. He also had longitudinal onychoschizia and onychomadesis of all fingernails with new nail formation underneath. No mucosal involvement was noted, and the patient denied systemic symptoms. Hyperkeratosis; parakeratosis; focal hypergranulosis; and a lymphohistiocytic, bandlike, dermal infiltrate of T lymphocytes with prominent eosinophils were revealed by evaluation of a 4 mm punch biopsy specimen from a characteristic lesion.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anemia, constipation, diarrhea, gastritis, GI bleeding, GI perforation, nausea, peptic ulcer, pyrosis (heartburn), vomiting
    General Information
    The most common adverse reactions to salsalate are GI-related. Frequently reported gastrointestinal reactions (up to 30% of patients) include nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia, pyrosis (heartburn), diarrhea, constipation, and abdominal pain. Symptoms of gastric distress can be reduced if salicylates are taken with food or a full glass of water. Gastrointestinal irritation and GI bleeding are less likely to occur with non-acetylated salicylates than with aspirin; treatment discontinuation is usually not needed. GI complications, such as peptic ulcer and erosive gastritis, occur in fewer than 1% of patients, may not be preceded by early GI manifestations, and are more likely to develop after concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause these adverse reactions. The risk of severe GI events is increased by the presence of the following factors: history of peptic ulcer disease or GI bleed, smoking, alcohol usage, concomitant usage of anticoagulants or oral corticosteroids, older age, poor general health status, and NSAID duration of use. Gastric or peptic ulcers up to 1 cm in diameter induced by salicylates may heal despite continued therapy when oral cimetidine or high dose antacids are used concomitantly. GI bleeding is more common with aspirin than with other salicylates and is not reduced by administering aspirin with food. Prolonged high dosages also can contribute to GI irritation. Older patients appear to be greater affected by GI ulceration or bleeding; most fatal GI events occur in older or debilitated patients. Occult GI bleeding occurs in many patients and is not necessarily correlated with GI distress. GI perforation may occur. While the amount of blood lost is usually not significant, blood loss can result in iron deficiency anemia. Patients on prolonged therapy should undergo regular blood monitoring. Use of the lowest salsalate effective dose for the shortest duration possible is recommended to minimize the potential for an adverse gastrointestinal event. Consider a therapy besides a NSAID for high-risk patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      peptic ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pyrosis (heartburn)
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      GI perforation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hearing loss, tinnitus
    General Information
    Tinnitus and hearing loss may occur in patients receiving high-dose and/or long-term salicylate therapy like salsalate. These effects are associated with early manifestations of salicylate toxicity. Tinnitus and hearing loss are usually dose-related and reversible upon dose reduction or discontinuation. Tinnitus is commonly associated with salicylic acid levels > 200—300 mcg/ml. Maximum hearing loss occurs most frequently at salicylic acid levels of >= 400 mcg/ml.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hearing loss
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Salsalate can cause or exacerbate hypertension. Mean blood pressure measurements in a man before salsalate 1500 mg twice daily were 127 +/- 7 over 84 +/- 6 mmHg. In contrast, the mean measurements were 150 +/- 13 over 95 +/- 5 mmHg during salsalate receipt and 119 +/- 2 over 81 +/- 2 mmHg after drug discontinuation. Multiple blood pressure measurements were taken before, during, and after salsalate use, and the patient had no changes in medications or medication doses with the exception of warfarin. Further, the patient's weight was stable, and no other cause for the hypertension was identified. Closely monitor the patient's blood pressure during salsalate initiation and throughout the therapy course.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, encephalopathy, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, rash (unspecified)
    General Information
    Salicylates may cause reversible hepatotoxicity primarily manifested as mild focal hepatic necrosis and portal hypertension with elevated hepatic enzymes (usually transaminases) and hyperbilirubinemia. Jaundice has been reported in some patients. Rarely, salicylates are associated with hypoprothrombinemia resulting in a prolonged prothrombin time. Rarely salicylates have been associated with chronic hepatitis. Usually salicylate-induced hepatotoxicity is mild, but rarely fatalities or hepatic encephalopathy have occurred. Patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs should have their CBC and a chemistry profile checked periodically. Salsalate should be discontinued if elevated liver-function tests persist or worsen, if signs or symptoms of hepatic disease develop, or if systemic manifestations, such as eosinophilia or rash (unspecified), are present.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      encephalopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoprothrombinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    acneiform rash, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, erythema nodosum, maculopapular rash, pruritus, urticaria
    General Information
    Dermatologic reactions are uncommon; usually reported in patients who receive salicylate therapy for > 1 week continually or with overdosage. These reactions include acneiform rash, erythema nodosum maculopapular rash, pruritus, and urticaria. Anaphylactoid reactions, including angioedema and acute bronchospasm, may occur with salicylate therapy. As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to salsalate. Allergic reactions to salsalate are more likely in patients with asthma; salsalate is contraindicated for use in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma or the aspirin triad because of the approximate 5% cross-sensitivity that occurs between aspirin and NSAIDs. The triad typically occurs in patients with asthma who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who experience severe, potentially fatal, acute bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Discontinue salsalate at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      erythema nodosum
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    azotemia, proteinuria, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis
    General Information
    With chronic, high-dose use, analgesic abuse, or salicylate overdose, a marked reduction in creatinine clearance, renal papillary necrosis, or renal tubular necrosis with renal failure may be seen; however, in usual doses, salicylates rarely cause clinically significant renal effects in patients with normal renal function. Salicylates may cause transient urinary excretion of renal tubular epithelial cells, azotemia (increases in BUN), albuminuria, and proteinuria. Vasodilatory renal prostaglandins and the potent vasoconstrictor angiotensin II work in concert to maintain renal blood flow. Inhibition of renal prostaglandins by NSAIDs can cause renal insufficiency and thus, fluid retention. Overt renal decompensation due to a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, thus, renal blood flow is usually reversed with NSAID discontinuation. Monitoring of the patient's fluid status and serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen concentrations is recommended. If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with renal disease develop, discontinue salsalate. Nephritis has been reported with salsalate use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      azotemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      renal papillary necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      renal tubular necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hyperuricemia
    General Information
    Salicylates, such as salsalate, have dose-dependent effects on plasma uric acid levels. At low doses (1—2 g/day) decreased urate excretion and hyperuricemia may be seen. Intermediate salicylate doses (2—3 g/day) usually do not alter urate excretion, and large doses of salicylates (> 5 g/day) induce uricosuria and lower plasma uric acid levels. Small doses of salicylates can block the effects of probenecid and other uricosuric agents that decrease the tubular reabsorption of uric acid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dehydration, diaphoresis, hyperglycemia, hypernatremia, hyperventilation, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory depression
    General Information
    At therapeutic doses, salicylates, like salsalate, cause changes in acid/base balance and electrolytes resulting in respiratory alkalosis. In patients with normal renal and respiratory function, this is usually compensated for appropriately. Severe acid/base disturbances may occur during salicylate toxicity. Infants and children with salicylate toxicity rarely present clinically with respiratory alkalosis. As salicylate toxicity progresses, changes resembling metabolic acidosis are present (e.g., low blood pH, low plasma bicarbonate levels, and normal or nearly normal plasma PaCO2). In reality, a combination of respiratory acidosis and metabolic acidosis is present. Alterations in water and electrolyte balance also occur in salicylate toxicity. Dehydration due to salicylate-induced diaphoresis and hyperventilation occurs. Since more water than electrolytes are loss, dehydration is associated with hypernatremia. Other laboratory changes noted in salicylate toxicity include hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia (especially in children), ketonuria, hypokalemia, and proteinuria. Prolonged exposure to high doses of salicylates also causes hypokalemia through both renal and nonrenal losses. Hyperventilation occurs due to direct stimulation of the respiratory center in the medulla. At high salicylate plasma concentrations (>= 350 mcg/ml), marked hyperventilation will occur and at serum concentrations of about 500 mcg/ml, hyperpnea will be seen. At high or prolonged doses, salicylates also have a depressant effect on the medulla. Toxic doses of salicylates cause central respiratory depression as well as cardiovascular collapse secondary to vasomotor depression. Since enhanced CO2 production continues, respiratory acidosis occurs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diaphoresis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypernatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperventilation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      metabolic acidosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    pulmonary edema
    General Information
    During acute or chronic salicylic acid toxicity, moderate-to-severe noncardiogenic pulmonary edema may occur with salsalate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary edema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, fever, hallucinations, headache, lethargy, seizures, vertigo, visual impairment, wheezing
    General Information
    Vertigo has been reported with salsalate. Dizziness, drowsiness, headache, lightheadedness, and lethargy may be signs of salicylism, mild salicylate toxicity. Other symptoms of salicylism include uncontrollable flapping movements of the hands, increased thirst, and visual impairment. In severe overdose, seizures, hallucinations, severe nervousness, excitement, confusion, wheezing or shortness of breath, and unexplained fever may occur. In young children the only signs of overdose may be behavior changes.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), leukocytosis, leukopenia, pancytopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Leukopenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, purpura, and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) have been reported rarely with salicylates like salsalate. Leukocytosis has occurred in patients with salicylate overdose. Non-acetylated salicylates do not affect platelet aggregation and do not increase bleeding time.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      aplastic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      disseminated intravascular coagulation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      leukocytosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pancytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    Reye's syndrome
    General Information
    Administration of salicylates, such as salsalate, to children with viral illnesses has been suspected of causing Reye's syndrome, a multisystem disorder evidenced by persistent vomiting, altered sensorium, elevated hepatic enzymes, hypoprothrombinemia, and hyperammonemia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      Reye's syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    lichen planus-like eruption
    General Information
    A lichen planus-like eruption developed in a patient 1 month after salsalate initiation and cleared within 3 weeks of salsalate discontinuation. The papules were distributed symmetrically primarily over his back and chest and were diffuse, scaling, pruritic, violaceous, and polygonal. He also had longitudinal onychoschizia and onychomadesis of all fingernails with new nail formation underneath. No mucosal involvement was noted, and the patient denied systemic symptoms. Hyperkeratosis; parakeratosis; focal hypergranulosis; and a lymphohistiocytic, bandlike, dermal infiltrate of T lymphocytes with prominent eosinophils were revealed by evaluation of a 4 mm punch biopsy specimen from a characteristic lesion.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lichen planus-like eruption
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    myocardial infarction, stroke, thromboembolism
    General Information
    Salsalate may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thromboembolism, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. The risk may increase with duration of use, and patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk. All NSAIDs, both COX-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent aspirin use mitigates the increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. Rofecoxib, a COX-2 inhibitor, has been pulled from the US market due to an observed increased risk for serious cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction and strokes. Use of the lowest salsalate effective dose for the shortest duration possible is recommended to minimize the potential for an adverse cardiovascular event. Hypotension has been reported with salsalate use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thromboembolism
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
    General Information
    Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), a multi-organ hypersensitivity reaction, has occurred with NSAIDs. Some of these events have been life-threatening or fatal. DRESS typically presents as fever, rash, and/or lymphadenopathy in conjunction with other organ system involvement including hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Early manifestations such as fever and lymphadenopathy may be present without evidence of a rash. Discontinue the NSAID in patients presenting with such signs and symptoms in whom an alternative etiology cannot be identified.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    diagnostic test interference, laboratory test interference
    General Information
    The pharmacological activity of NSAIDs in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may result in diagnostic test interference by diminishing the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting infection. Salsalate may also cause laboratory test interference. Salicylate competes with thyroid hormone for binding to plasma proteins, which may be reflected in a depressed plasma T4 value in some individuals; thyroid function and basal metabolism are unaffected.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diagnostic test interference
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    NSAIDs may delay or prevent prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in people who may become pregnant who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Description: Salsalate is a non-acetylated, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent. Salsalate (salicylsalicylic acid) is composed of two molecules of salicylic acid joined by an ester link. The ester bond of salsalate occurs at the carboxyl group of one salicylic acid molecule and the hydroxyl group of another. Salsalate has analgesic properties, but clinical evidence of its effectiveness as an antipyretic is lacking. Salsalate is used in the treatment of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and other inflammatory conditions. It has fewer gastrointestinal effects than aspirin and has no clinically significant effect on platelet function. Salsalate was FDA-approved in 1977.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mechanism of Action: The activity of salsalate is due to ionized salicylic acid. Salicylic acid inhibits prostaglandin synthesis possibly by reversibly inhibiting cyclooxygenase (COX), although the exact mechanism of this inhibition has not been established for salicylates other than aspirin. Salicylic acid has little or no ability to inhibit COX in vitro, but is as active as aspirin in vivo in decreasing prostaglandin synthesis. The exact mechanism of prostaglandin inhibition by salicylic acid is unclear; however, salicylates produce the majority of classic NSAID effects. Theories regarding the potential mechanism for salicylic acid include inactivation of transcriptional regulatory proteins (e.g., NF-kappaB), which regulate expression of inflammatory proteins including COX. Cyclooxygenase is responsible for the conversion of arachidonic acid to prostaglandin G2 (PGG2), the first step in prostaglandin synthesis and precursor to prostaglandins of the E and F series. Salicylates do not inhibit the peroxidase activity of this enzyme and do not suppress leukotriene synthesis by lipoxygenase pathways.•Antiinflammatory Activity: The antiinflammatory mechanism of the salicylic acid is due to decreased prostaglandin synthesis and possibly by inhibiting the synthesis and/or activity of other mediators of the inflammation response. Salicylates have been shown to inhibit leukocyte migration, inhibit the release of lysosomal enzymes, and to alter the composition, synthesis, and metabolism of mucopolysaccharides of connective tissues. The total serum salicylate levels associated with antiinflammatory activity are 150—300 mcg/ml. In patients with rheumatic fever, some clinicians favor higher levels of salicylate (i.e., 250—350 mcg/ml).•Analgesic Actions: Salicylates are effective in cases where inflammation has caused sensitivity of pain receptors (hyperalgesia). It appears prostaglandins, specifically prostaglandins E and F, are responsible for sensitizing the pain receptors; therefore, salicylates have an indirect analgesic effect by inhibiting the production of further prostaglandins and do not directly affect hyperalgesia or the pain threshold. Salicylates may also interfere with pain perception centrally by activity within the hypothalamus. The total serum salicylate levels associated with analgesic activity are 30—100 mcg/ml.•Antipyretic Actions: Salicylates promote a return to a normal body temperature set point in the hypothalamus by suppressing the synthesis of prostaglandins, specifically PGE2, in circumventricular organs in and near the hypothalamus. Salicylates rarely decrease body temperature in afebrile patients. Paradoxically, toxic doses of salicylates may increase body temperature by increasing oxygen consumption and metabolic rate. The total serum salicylate levels associated with antipyretic activity are 30—100 mcg/ml.•Coagulation Effects: In a dose-dependent fashion, salicylates may interfere with the synthesis of vitamin K dependent clotting factors (e.g., factors VII, IX, and X). This effect is seen primarily at salicylate levels > 300 mcg/ml. The increase in prothrombin time that may be seen is due to a decrease in factor VII that may be corrected by stopping salicylate therapy or administering vitamin K. As opposed to aspirin and diflunisal, non-acetylated salicylates do not exhibit a clinically relevant effect on platelet function.•Gastrointestinal Effects: Adverse gastrointestinal effects may be mediated through decreased prostaglandin synthesis due to inhibition of COX-1. A direct irritant effect on gastric mucosa may also be involved. Salicylates increase the permeability of the gastric mucosa to cations, thus increasing the entry of acid into the mucosa. Salicylates are also known to stimulate the chemoreceptor trigger zone, resulting in nausea and vomiting.•Respiratory Effects: The respiratory effects of salicylates lead to acid/base changes and alterations in electrolyte and water balance. Salicylates stimulate respiration directly and indirectly resulting in respiratory alkalosis. This is caused by a salicylate-induced increase in oxygen consumption, primarily in skeletal muscle, leading to increased carbon dioxide production and respiratory stimulation. Increased alveolar ventilation balances the increased carbon dioxide production; therefore, plasma carbon dioxide (PaCO2) does not change. Salicylate-induced respiratory alkalosis is compensated for by increasing renal excretion of bicarbonate, which is accompanied by increased sodium and potassium excretion. The serum bicarbonate level is then lowered and the serum pH returns to normal (i.e., compensated respiratory alkalosis). However, if the respiratory response to hypercapnia has been depressed (e.g., administration of a barbiturate or opiate agonist), salicylates will cause a significant increase in PaCO2 and respiratory acidosis. Hyperventilation also occurs due to direct stimulation of the respiratory center in the medulla. At high salicylate plasma concentrations (>= 350 mcg/ml), marked hyperventilation will occur, and at serum concentrations of about 500 mcg/ml, hyperpnea will be seen. Finally, at high-therapeutic and at toxic doses, aspirin can affect oxidative phosphorylation, however, this action is insignificant at lower doses. Other changes in acid-base status (e.g., metabolic and respiratory acidosis) and electrolyte and water balance (hypokalemia, hypernatremia, dehydration) may be seen during salicylate intoxication (see Adverse Reactions).•Renal Effects: In addition to changes in sodium and fluid status secondary to acid/base changes, salicylates may decrease renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate, which may be accompanied by water and potassium retention, in sodium-restricted patients and patients with impaired renal function or hypovolemic states. Changes in renal function are due to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis, which increase renal blood flow and maintain normal renal function. Salicylate-induced renal effects are uncommon in patients with normal renal function.•Uricosuric Effects: Salicylates act on the renal tubules to affect uric acid excretion. Lower doses (e.g., 1—2 g/day) of salicylates inhibit the active secretion of uric acid into the urine via the proximal tubules. However, high doses (> 5 g/day) of salicylates inhibit the tubular reabsorption of uric acid, resulting in a uricosuric effect. Uric acid secretion is not changed at intermediate dosages. While once used for their uricosuric properties, other agents have replaced salicylates for this purpose.•Uterine Effects: Salicylates produce various effects on the uterus due to inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis. Alleviation of dysmenorrhea may be due to inhibition of prostaglandins of the E and F series. Administration of salicylates late in pregnancy may prolong gestation and labor.•Other Actions: Salicylates have complex actions on carbohydrate and cholesterol metabolism. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. By inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, salicylates can indirectly increase insulin secretion.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Salsalate is absorbed primarily from the small intestine; it is insoluble in acidic gastric fluid. Food delays the rate of absorption of salsalate. In the small intestine, it is partially hydrolyzed to two molecules of salicylic acid by GI mucosa esterases; although, most salsalate is absorbed unchanged. The amount of unchanged salsalate that reaches the systemic circulation is unknown. In fasting healthy adults receiving a single 1 g oral dose of salsalate tablets, an average peak plasma salicylate concentration of 108 mcg/ml occurred in 3 hours in fasting conditions and an average peak plasma salicylate concentration of 75 mcg/ml occurred within 5 hours in nonfasted conditions. Therapeutic effects may not be observed for 3—4 days when salicylate concentrations reach steady state.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Among 5 patients with renal failure, the systemic exposure of salsalate was about half the value obtained from patients with normal renal function, and the half-life was increased. In contrast, the mean salicylic acid systemic exposure was 1301 +/- 191 mcg•hr/ml among patients with renal failure and 847 +/- 40 mcg•hr/ml among controls, and the salicylic acid half-life was approximately doubled in patients with renal failure. Administration of a 4-hour hemodialysis session removed 18% of total body salicylic acid and led to a salicylic acid half-life that was similar to the value from patients with normal renal function (see Dosage).
  Text
  Salsalate is given orally.  Salicylic acid crosses the placenta and is excreted in breast milk; it is unknown if unhydrolyzed salsalate is excreted in breast milk. During chronic administration, salicylate concentrations in the fetus may be higher than those in the mother. Protein binding of salicylates to albumin varies with serum salicylic acid and albumin concentrations. At salicylate levels of 400 mcg/ml.
 
Approximately 90% of the circulating salsalate is hydrolyzed to two salicylic acid molecules by esterases present in liver, plasma, intestine, and several other tissues. Salsalate is hydrolyzed more slowly than aspirin. Unlike other salicylates, metabolism of unhydrolyzed salsalate is not capacity-limited; multiple doses are hydrolyzed as extensively as single doses. About 7—13% of a single dose is conjugated to a glucuronide without hydrolysis to salicylic acid; therefore, salsalate provides about 15% less salicylic acid than an equivalent dose of aspirin. The half-life of salsalate is about 1 hour in patients with normal renal and hepatic function. Salsalate is almost completely eliminated in the urine, with 30% of the dose may be eliminated as free salicylic acid, but in acidic urine, only about 2% is eliminated as free salicylic acid.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer salsalate orally with a full glass of water. Food or milk may minimize GI upset.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Maximum dosage information is not available.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    Maximum dosage information is not available.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustment recommendations are available. Salsalate discontinuation is recommended for patients who develop signs or symptoms of hepatic disease.
  Renal Impairment
  Dosage should be modified depending on clinical response, salicylate concentrations, and degree of renal impairment (see Contraindications), but no quantitative recommendations are available. Salsalate discontinuation is recommended for patients who develop signs or symptoms of renal disease.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
The following dose has been recommended: 750 mg PO twice daily between dialysis sessions and 500 mg PO after dialysis; periodic plasma salicylic acid concentration monitoring is advisable.
