=== Iberdomide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5694)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Iberdomide is a cereblon-modulating protein degrader indicated in combination with daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least 1 prior line of therapy including a proteasome inhibitor and an immunomodulatory agent.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1 mg PO daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cardiac arrest, cardiomyopathy, myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, stroke, thrombocytosis, thromboembolism, thrombosis, anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, infection, influenza, pharyngitis, sepsis, sinusitis, gi perforation, anosmia, ataxia, dizziness, gait disturbance, hypoesthesia, muscle paralysis, myopathy, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, cough, dyspnea

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use iberdomide with caution in patients with a history of thromboembolism, myocardial infarction, or stroke. Emetic risk: Minimal/Low Hazardous drug: Approved by FDA after NIOSH list published. The...

Brand Names
  - Zenbexus

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of multiple myeloma in patients who have received at least 1 prior line of therapy including a proteasome inhibitor and an immunomodulatory agent, in combination with daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          1 mg PO daily on days 1 to 21 repeated every 28 days until disease progression; give in combination with daratumumab; hyaluronidase (1,800 mg daratumumab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously on days 1, 8, 15, 22 of cycles 1 and 2; on days 1 and 15 of cycles 3, 4, 5, 6; and then on day 1 starting on cycle 7 and beyond) and dexamethasone (40 mg PO on days 1, 8, 15, 22 or 20 mg weekly in patients 75 years or older, with a body-mass index [BMI] less than 18.5 kg/m2, poorly controlled diabetes, or prior intolerance to steroid therapy). Administer with the recommended thromboprophylaxis. In a 2-stage, randomized, phase 3 trial (EXCALIBER-RRMM), the minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative complete response (CR) rate at any time was 41% in the iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone arm (IberDd) compared with 21% in the daratumumab; hyaluronidase plus bortezomib and dexamethasone arm (DVd).
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of multiple myeloma

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    arterial thromboembolism, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, myocardial infarction, stroke, tobacco smoking, venous thromboembolism
    General Information
    Use iberdomide with caution in patients with a history of thromboembolism, myocardial infarction, or stroke. Venous thromboembolism (e.g., deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) and arterial thromboembolism (e.g., myocardial infarction and stroke) have been reported in patients with multiple myeloma who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in clinical trials. A prior history of thrombosis, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and/or tobacco smoking may increase the risk of thromboembolism with iberdomide therapy; minimize modifiable risk factors if possible.
    Headline
    blood donor
    General Information
    Patients must avoid being a blood donor during treatment with iberdomide and for 4 weeks following discontinuation of therapy because of the risk that this blood might be administered to a pregnant individual whose fetus must not be exposed to iberdomide.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use iberdomide with caution in patients with severe renal impairment including renal failure who are not receiving dialysis. Due to an increased risk of adverse reactions, a dose reduction is necessary in these patients.
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Do not initiate iberdomide therapy in patients with an active or uncontrolled infection. Iberdomide can cause serious, life-threatening, or fatal infections. Consider prophylactic anti-infective medication according to current practice guidelines. Therapy interruption or dose reduction may be necessary based on severity.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Iberdomide is contraindicated in pregnancy due to the risk of fetal harm. Iberdomide is embryo-fetal toxic in animals and can cause birth defects or embryo-fetal death in humans. Iberdomide has a shared mechanism of action with thalidomide, a known human teratogen that causes a high frequency of severe, life-threatening human birth defects such as limb absence, short limbs, bone hypoplasticity, absence of bones, external ear abnormalities, facial palsy, eye abnormalities (anophthalmos, microphthalmos), and congenital heart defects. Alimentary tract, urinary tract, and genital malformations have also occurred. Mortality at birth or shortly after has been reported in approximately 40% of infants exposed to thalidomide. If pregnancy occurs during treatment, immediately discontinue iberdomide. Refer the patient to an obstetrician/gynecologist experienced in reproductive toxicity for further evaluation and counseling. Report any suspected fetal exposure to the FDA via the MedWatch program at 1-800-FDA-1088 and also to the REMS Call Center at 1-888-423-5436.
    Headline
    embryo-fetal toxicity, people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with iberdomide. Iberdomide has a shared mechanism of action with thalidomide, a known human teratogen that causes a high frequency of severe, life-threatening human birth defects. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. People of reproductive potential must have 2 negative pregnancy tests prior to treatment initiation; perform the first test within 10 to 14 days, and the second test within 24 hours prior to prescribing iberdomide. During treatment, pregnancy testing should occur weekly during the first 4 weeks, then every 4 weeks in those with regular menstrual cycles or every 2 weeks in those with irregular menstrual cycles. Discontinue therapy, counsel, and perform pregnancy testing if a period is missed or if there is any abnormal menstrual bleeding. People who may become pregnant must commit to abstain continuously from heterosexual intercourse or to use 2 methods of reliable contraception simultaneously, including at least 1 highly effective contraceptive method (intrauterine device, hormonal contraception, tubal ligation, or partner vasectomy) and 1 additional effective method (male latex or synthetic condom, diaphragm, or cervical cap). Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception for at least 4 weeks prior to treatment initiation, during treatment, during any dose interruptions, and for at least 4 weeks after completing treatment. Follow these contraceptive requirements even in individuals with a history of infertility, unless a hysterectomy has been performed. Iberdomide may pass into human semen. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, barrier contraception such as a latex or synthetic condom must always be used during iberdomide therapy and for 4 weeks after the last dose, even if they have undergone a successful vasectomy. Counsel patients to abstain from egg or sperm donation during iberdomide therapy and for 4 weeks after the last dose. Based on findings in animals, female and male fertility may be impaired with iberdomide treatment; these effects may be reversible in males.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking iberdomide due to the potential for adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of iberdomide in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effect on milk production. Iberdomide is present in animal milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Iberdomide is contraindicated in pregnancy due to the risk of fetal harm. Iberdomide is embryo-fetal toxic in animals and can cause birth defects or embryo-fetal death in humans. Iberdomide has a shared mechanism of action with thalidomide, a known human teratogen that causes a high frequency of severe, life-threatening human birth defects such as limb absence, short limbs, bone hypoplasticity, absence of bones, external ear abnormalities, facial palsy, eye abnormalities (anophthalmos, microphthalmos), and congenital heart defects. Alimentary tract, urinary tract, and genital malformations have also occurred. Mortality at birth or shortly after has been reported in approximately 40% of infants exposed to thalidomide. If pregnancy occurs during treatment, immediately discontinue iberdomide. Refer the patient to an obstetrician/gynecologist experienced in reproductive toxicity for further evaluation and counseling. Report any suspected fetal exposure to the FDA via the MedWatch program at 1-800-FDA-1088 and also to the REMS Call Center at 1-888-423-5436.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking iberdomide due to the potential for adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of iberdomide in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effect on milk production. Iberdomide is present in animal milk.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and adagrasib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and atazanavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and atazanavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and cobicistat due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and avacopan due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and berotralstat due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ceritinib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and chloramphenicol due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ciprofloxacin due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and cobicistat due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and conivaptan due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and crizotinib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and cyclosporine due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and darunavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and cobicistat due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and darunavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and cobicistat due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and darunavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and diltiazem due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and dronedarone due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and duvelisib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and cobicistat due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and cobicistat due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and erythromycin due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and fedratinib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and fluconazole due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and fluvoxamine due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and fosamprenavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during iberdomide treatment due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure and adverse reactions. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and idelalisib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and imatinib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and isavuconazonium due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and itraconazole due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and oral lefamulin due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and letermovir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. For those receiving combination letermovir plus cyclosporine, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold; use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and lonafarnib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ritonavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and mifepristone due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and nefazodone due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and nelfinavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and netupitant due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and nilotinib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ritonavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and nirogacestat due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and posaconazole due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and relacorilant due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ribociclib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in those receiving a ribociclib dose of 400 mg/day, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. If concomitant use is necessary in those receiving a ribociclib dose of 600 mg/day, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 600 mg/day. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold; use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ribociclib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in those receiving a ribociclib dose of 400 mg/day, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. If concomitant use is necessary in those receiving a ribociclib dose of 600 mg/day, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 600 mg/day. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold; use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ritonavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and saquinavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and tipranavir due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and verapamil due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and tucatinib due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and verapamil due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and voriconazole due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and voxelotor due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    cardiac arrest, cardiomyopathy, myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, stroke, thrombocytosis, thromboembolism, thrombosis
    General Information
    Venous thromboembolic events/thromboembolism occurred in 6.4% of patients with multiple myeloma who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial; all patients in this study received thromboprophylaxis. Venous thromboembolic events including deep venous thrombosis (3.4%) and pulmonary embolism (1.5%) were reported in this study. Arterial thromboembolic events including myocardial infarction (2%) and stroke (1.5%) also occurred; fatal cardiac arrest occurred in 1 patient. In patients who develop a thromboembolism, hold iberdomide and initiate anticoagulant therapy according to guidelines. Thromboprophylaxis is recommended in all patients; the choice of prophylactic regimen should be based on an assessment of patient underlying risk factors. The term venous thromboembolic event included retinal vein occlusion, venous embolism, post thrombotic syndrome, superficial vein thrombocytosis, and thrombophlebitis. The term arterial thromboembolic event included stress cardiomyopathy, lacunar infarction, and peripheral arterial occlusive disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cardiomyopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thromboembolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic toxicity including neutropenia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia were reported in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial. The median time to grade 3 or 4 neutropenia (90.2%; grade 3 or 4, 84.3%) was 21 days and the median duration was 8 days. Febrile neutropenia occurred in 5.4% of patients. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary; initiate granulocyte colony-stimulating factors as appropriate per guidelines. Blood cell counts that decreased from baseline included neutrophils (97%; grade 3 or 4, 77%), leukocytes (95%; grade 3 or 4, 69%), lymphocytes (91%; grade 3 or 4, 62%), platelets (62%; grade 3 or 4, 9%), and hemoglobin (58%; grade 3 or 4, 6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, influenza, pharyngitis, sepsis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Infection including opportunistic infections (78.9%; grade 3 or 4, 39.2%; grade 5, 2%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial. Sepsis (2.9%) was reported and included fatal sepsis (1.5%) in more than 1 patient. Fatal infection of listeria encephalitis and influenza each occurred in 1 patient. An interruption of therapy or dose reduction may be necessary based on severity. Infections reported included upper respiratory tract infection (54%; grade 3 or higher, 6%), pneumonia (34%; grade 3 or 4, 25%), and COVID-19 (23%; grade 3 or 4, 3.9%). The term upper respiratory tract infection included nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis, and sinusitis. The term pneumonia included atypical, bacterial, and viral pneumonia, lower respiratory infection, and lung consolidation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sepsis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    new primary malignancy
    General Information
    New primary malignancy (6.9%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial. One fatal case of lung adenocarcinoma was also reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypocalcemia, metabolic acidosis
    General Information
    Hypocalcemia/decreased calcium level from baseline (44%; grade 3 or 4, 2%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial. One fatal case of metabolic acidosis was also reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      metabolic acidosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue (36%; grade 3 or 4, 3.4%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bone pain, musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain (35%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5%) and bone pain (11%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes, specifically an increase from baseline in alkaline phosphatase (33%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%), occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial. Hepatotoxicity (less than 10%) was also reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, GI perforation, nausea
    General Information
    Diarrhea (33%; grade 3 or 4, 4.9%), constipation (20%), and nausea (14%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) have been reported in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial. One fatal case of large intestine/GI perforation also occurred.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI perforation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anosmia, ataxia, dizziness, gait disturbance, hypoesthesia, muscle paralysis, myopathy, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Nervous system disorders including motor dysfunction (26%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5%), sensory neuropathy (19%; grade 3 or 4, 4.4%), and dizziness (11%) have been reported in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial. The term motor dysfunction included ataxia, balance disorder, gait disturbance, muscle contracture, muscle spasms, muscular weakness, myopathy, muscle paralysis, and peripheral muscle neuropathy. The term sensory neuropathy included anosmia, hypoesthesia, mononeuropathy, neuralgia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, polyneuropathy, and radiculopathy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anosmia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle paralysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      myopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      gait disturbance
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    rash
    General Information
    Rash (26%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    insomnia, restless legs syndrome (RLS)
    General Information
    Sleep disorder (25%; grade 3 or 4, 2.9%) has been reported in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial. The term sleep disorder included insomnia and restless legs syndrome (RLS).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      restless legs syndrome (RLS)
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypogammaglobulinemia
    General Information
    Hypogammaglobulinemia including hypoglobulinemia (24%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypogammaglobulinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, respiratory failure
    General Information
    Cough (18%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) and dyspnea (10%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial. One fatal case of respiratory failure was also reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory failure
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    edema
    General Information
    Edema (17%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever (14%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nephrotoxicity
    General Information
    Nephrotoxicity/renal impairment (11%; grade 3 or 4, 3.4%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bleeding, epistaxis, GI bleeding, hematuria, subdural hematoma
    General Information
    Bleeding (10%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5%) occurred in multiple myeloma patients who received iberdomide plus daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone in a clinical trial. The term bleeding/hemorrhage included epistaxis, GI bleeding, hematuria, injection site hemorrhage, rectal hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and subdural hematoma.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      subdural hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on findings in animals, female and male infertility may occur with iberdomide treatment; these effects may be reversible in males.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Iberdomide is a cereblon-modulating protein degrader indicated in combination with daratumumab; hyaluronidase and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least 1 prior line of therapy including a proteasome inhibitor and an immunomodulatory agent. Iberdomide is contraindicated in pregnancy due to risk of birth defects or embryo-fetal death. It was approved by the FDA in August 2026.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Iberdomide is a cereblon (CRBN)-modulating protein degrader that binds CRBN, the substrate-recognition component of the CRL4^CRBN E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, and promotes recruitment, ubiquitination, and proteasomal degradation of the transcription factors Aiolos (IKZF3) and Ikaros (IKZF1). Degradation of Aiolos and Ikaros produces direct antimyeloma and immunomodulatory effects; these transcription factors support multiple myeloma cell proliferation and survival and regulate lymphocyte development and immune function. Iberdomide has demonstrated antitumor activity in multiple myeloma models, including lenalidomide- and pomalidomide-resistant cell lines.
Pharmacodynamics: Iberdomide decreased B cells, NK cells, and naive CD8+ T cells and increased effector-memory CD8+ T cells, HLA-DR expression on CD8+ T cells, and Ki-67-positive CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and NK cells in relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma patients at the recommended 1 mg dose in combination with daratumumab and dexamethasone.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    At steady state in patients with multiple myeloma receiving the recommended dosage, the mean Cmax is 6.35 nanogram/mL (CV, 30%) and the AUC is 82.6 nanogram x hour/mL (CV, 32%); accumulation is approximately 2-fold. Cmax and AUC are approximately dose-proportional following single doses of 0.1 to 6 mg in healthy subjects. The median Tmax at steady state is 2 hours (range, 2 to 10 hours). Food is not expected to have a clinically significant effect on iberdomide pharmacokinetics.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Child-Pugh class A, B, or C hepatic impairment has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of iberdomide.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In individuals with eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 who were not receiving dialysis, the AUC was 1.8-fold higher and the Cmax was comparable with values in healthy subjects. No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of iberdomide were observed with eGFR greater than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 or with eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 requiring intermittent hemodialysis. Dialysis clearance was 3.07 L/hour, representing 16% of total clearance in individuals requiring intermittent hemodialysis.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (36 to 90 years) has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of iberdomide.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of iberdomide.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (White, 65%; Asian, 27%; Black, 4%) has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of iberdomide.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (37.6 to 137 kg), body mass index (16.7 to 49.7 kg/m2), or body surface area (1.27 to 2.6 m2) has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of iberdomide.
  Text
  Iberdomide is administered orally. It is 75% bound to plasma proteins in vitro; binding is concentration-independent. The volume of distribution of iberdomide is 415 L (CV, 40%) and the in vitro blood-to-plasma concentration ratio is 0.78. It is metabolized primarily by CYP3A. The terminal elimination half-life is 37 hours (CV, 51%) with an apparent clearance of 12.3 L/hour (CV, 38%). Approximately 46% of a radiolabeled dose was recovered in urine (16% as unchanged drug) and 43% in feces (11% as unchanged drug).
Pharmacodynamics: At doses of 1 to 1.6 mg, no clinically relevant relationship was observed between systemic iberdomide exposure and efficacy; increasing exposure was associated with a higher risk of grade 3 or higher neutropenia and dose modification due to treatment-emergent adverse events.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, P-gp, BCRP
Iberdomide is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP. Itraconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, increased iberdomide AUC 2.4-fold. Moderate CYP3A inhibitors are predicted to increase Cmax 1.5-fold and AUC 1.7-fold. Rifampin, a strong CYP3A inducer, decreased Cmax to 29% and AUC to 10% of control values; a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease Cmax to approximately 50% and AUC to approximately 30% of control values. Mild CYP3A inhibitors or inducers and P-gp inhibitors are not predicted to have a clinically significant effect on iberdomide pharmacokinetics.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
Approved by FDA after NIOSH list published. The manufacturer recommends this drug be handled as a hazardous drug.
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
Wash the exposed area immediately and thoroughly with soap and water if powder from iberdomide capsules come into contact with skin; avoid raising dust during clean-up of broken capsules.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer PRN antiemetics as necessary.
Recommended Prophylaxis
Thromboprophylaxis is recommended in all patients; the choice of prophylactic regimen should be based on an assessment of a patient's underlying risk factors.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take with or without food at approximately the same time each day.
Swallow capsules whole; do not open, break, or chew.
If a dose is missed, take within 12 hours of missing the dose. If more than 12 hours have passed, skip the missed dose. Do not double the next dose.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1 mg PO daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1 mg PO daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR greater than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2: No dosage adjustment is recommended.
eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 receiving intermittent hemodialysis: No dosage adjustment is recommended.
eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 not receiving dialysis: Reduce dose to 0.75 mg PO daily on days 1 to 21 of each 28-day cycle. If dose modification is needed for adverse events, reduce dose to 1 mg every other day on days 1 to 21 of each 28-day cycle.
