=== Anakinra — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2461)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Anakinra is a recombinant, non-glycosylated form of the human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra).

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 100 mg/day subcutaneously for most indications; doses up to 8 mg/kg/day subcutaneously are used for selected indications.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cutaneous amyloidosis, ecchymosis, injection site reaction, infection, pharyngitis, sinusitis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. This medication is also contraindicated in people with E. coli protein hypersensitivity, as anakinra is produced by recombinant DNA technology using an E coli bacterial expression...

ANAKINRA

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Kineret

Indication Specific Dosing

INVESTIGATIONAL USE: For adjunctive use in the treatment of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection†, the virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)†

Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


100 mg daily via subcutaneous injection for 10 days is the EUA authorized dose. Concurrent use with TNF blocking agents and other anti-cytokine treatments has not been evaluated in COVID-19 patients. The NIH COVID-19 treatment guidelines do not give recommendations for or against the use of anakinra due to a lack of clinical data.


For the treatment of moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis in persons who have failed disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs)

Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


100 mg subcutaneously once daily, at approximately the same time each day. Higher doses do not result in increased response. Anakinra may be given alone or in combination with DMARDs other than tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors.


For the treatment of cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (CAPS), specifically Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID)

Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


1 to 2 mg/kg/dose subcutaneously once daily, initially. If needed, increase by 0.5 to 1 mg/kg increments. In a clinical trial, the average maintenance dose was 3 to 4 mg/kg/day. Usually given as a single daily dose. However, splitting the daily dose into twice-daily administrations may result in better symptom control for some patients. Max: 8 mg/kg/day.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


1 to 2 mg/kg/dose subcutaneously once daily, initially. If needed, increase by 0.5 to 1 mg/kg increments. In a clinical trial, the average maintenance dose was 3 to 4 mg/kg/day. Usually given as a single daily dose. However, splitting the daily dose into twice-daily administrations may result in better symptom control for some patients. Max: 8 mg/kg/day.


For the treatment of IVIG-resistant Kawasaki disease†

Subcutaneous dosage
Infants, Children, and Adolescents


2 to 10 mg/kg/dose subcutaneously once daily for at least 15 days or while hospitalized. For hospitalized individuals receiving 10 mg/kg/day and ready to discharge, reduce dose to 5 mg/kg/day for 1 day, then discontinue. IV administration is preferred while hospitalized.


Intravenous dosage
Infants, Children, and Adolescents


5 mg/kg/dose IV every 12 hours while hospitalized. When ready to discharge, reduce dose to 5 mg/kg/day for 1 day, then discontinue.


For the management of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) post SARS-CoV-2 exposure†

Subcutaneous or Intravenous dosage
Infants, Children, and Adolescents


5 to 10 mg/kg/day IV (preferred) or subcutaneous in 1 to 4 divided doses in patients with refractory MIS-C who do not improve within 24 hours of initial immunomodulatory therapy. Tapering over 2 to 3 weeks, or even longer, may be necessary to avoid rebound inflammation.


For the treatment of recurrent pericarditis†

Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


1 to 2 mg/kg/dose (Max: 100 mg/dose) subcutaneously once daily for several months.


Children and Adolescents


1 to 2 mg/kg/dose (Max: 100 mg/dose) subcutaneously once daily for several months.


For the treatment of deficiency of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (DIRA)

Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


1 to 2 mg/kg/dose subcutaneously once daily, initially. If needed to control active inflammation, increase by 0.5 to 1 mg/kg increments up to a maximum of 8 mg/kg/day.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


1 to 2 mg/kg/dose subcutaneously once daily, initially. If needed to control active inflammation, increase by 0.5 to 1 mg/kg increments up to a maximum of 8 mg/kg/day.


For the treatment of acute gout†

Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


100 mg subcutaneously once daily for 5 days.


For the treatment of systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis†

Subcutaneous dosage
Children and Adolescents


2 mg/kg/dose (Max: 100 mg/dose) subcutaneously once daily. In individuals with an inadequate response, may increase dose to 4 mg/kg/dose (Max: 200 mg/dose) subcutaneously once daily.    


For the treatment of polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis†

Subcutaneous dosage
Children and Adolescents


1 mg/kg/dose (Max: 100 mg/dose) subcutaneously once daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. This medication is also contraindicated in people with E. coli protein hypersensitivity, as anakinra is produced by recombinant DNA technology using an E coli bacterial expression system.

General Information

Avoid the use of live vaccines concurrently with anakinra. Ensure the interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy is in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents. No data are available on the effectiveness of vaccination with inactivated antigens, other than tetanus/diphtheria toxoids vaccine, in people receiving anakinra.

geriatric, infection


Do not start anakinra in people with an active infection. For patients with a chronic infection or immunosuppression, the safety and efficacy of anakinra have not been evaluated and the impact of anakinra treatment on active and/or chronic infections is not known. If a serious infection develops during treatment in a rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patient, anakinra should be discontinued. In patients with neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID) or deficiency of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (DIRA), the potential risk of continued treatment should be weighed against the risk of a disease flare upon discontinuation of anakinra. Similarly, if a COVID-19 patient develops a concurrent infection during treatment with anakinra, consider the risks and benefits of continued anakinra therapy. Anakinra affects the immune system and may increase the risk of tuberculosis or other atypical or opportunistic infections. Follow current CDC guidelines both to evaluate for and to treat possible latent tuberculosis infections before anakinra initiation. Also, use anakinra cautiously in people of geriatric age as a higher incidence of infections was noted in these anakinra recipients.


renal failure, renal impairment


Consider administering the prescribed anakinra dose every other day for people with severe renal impairment or renal failure, defined as a creatinine clearance (CrCl) less than 30 mL/minute. 


breast-feeding


There are no data on the presence of anakinra in either human or animal milk or the effects on milk production. Limited data from a small retrospective study and postmarketing case reports do not establish an association between maternal anakinra use during lactation and adverse effects in breastfed infants. These limited data during lactation preclude a clear determination of the risk of anakinra to an infant during lactation. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for anakinra in the mother and any potential adverse effects to the nursing infant from anakinra or from the underlying maternal condition. Guidelines suggest that until further data are available, anakinra use in patients with RA should be approached with caution and avoided if possible during breast-feeding.


planned procedure


Patients who undergo surgery while taking biologic therapy, such as anakinra, may be at greater risk for postoperative infections. For a planned procedure, balance the risk of postoperative infection against the risk of developing a severe or unstable disease by stopping the biologic therapy. The American College of Rheumatology recommends holding anakinra for 2 days before undergoing total knee or total hip arthroplasties.


pregnancy


Available data from retrospective studies and case reports are insufficient to determine whether anakinra use during pregnancy increases the risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Increased rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (CAPS) disease activity has been associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes, including preterm delivery, low birth weight, and small for gestational age infants. In an international retrospective study of 23 anakinra-exposed pregnancies, outcomes included 21 healthy live births, 1 miscarriage, and 1 infant with left renal agenesis (background rate of renal malformations approximately 0.2% to 2%). In another retrospective series of 10 pregnancies in patients with CAPS, there were 9 live births, 1 miscarriage, and 1 fetal death in a twin pregnancy (with one healthy surviving twin). These limited data, which are subject to small sample size and confounding factors, do not establish or exclude a drug-associated risk. Animal studies in rats and rabbits showed no evidence of fetal harm at doses up to 25 times the maximum recommended human dose (mg/kg basis). Guidelines suggest that until further data are available, anakinra use should be avoided during pregnancy if possible in patients with RA.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data from retrospective studies and case reports are insufficient to determine whether anakinra use during pregnancy increases the risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Increased rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (CAPS) disease activity has been associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes, including preterm delivery, low birth weight, and small for gestational age infants. In an international retrospective study of 23 anakinra-exposed pregnancies, outcomes included 21 healthy live births, 1 miscarriage, and 1 infant with left renal agenesis (background rate of renal malformations approximately 0.2% to 2%). In another retrospective series of 10 pregnancies in patients with CAPS, there were 9 live births, 1 miscarriage, and 1 fetal death in a twin pregnancy (with one healthy surviving twin). These limited data, which are subject to small sample size and confounding factors, do not establish or exclude a drug-associated risk. Animal studies in rats and rabbits showed no evidence of fetal harm at doses up to 25 times the maximum recommended human dose (mg/kg basis). Guidelines suggest that until further data are available, anakinra use should be avoided during pregnancy if possible in patients with RA.


Interactions

Abatacept: (Major) Concomitant use of abatacept with biological DMARDs, such as anakinra, is not recommended because of the possibility of additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection. There is insufficient experience to assess the safety and efficacy of abatacept administered concurrently with anakinra.
Adalimumab: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of anakinra with biological DMARDs, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) modifiers; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection with no additional clinical benefit. Data suggest a higher rate of serious infections when anakinra and a TNF inhibitor is used in combination with anakinra compared with either drug given alone. Neutropenia (1,000/mcL or less) was observed in 2% of patients receiving the combination. The use of anakinra with a TNF inhibitor in combination did not yield any additional clinical benefit as compared to the use of the TNF inhibitor alone.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Baricitinib: (Major) Concomitant use of baricitinib with biologic DMARDs, such as anakinra, is not recommended because of the possibility of increased immunosuppression and increased infection risk. Baricitinib may be used as monotherapy or concomitantly with methotrexate or other nonbiologic DMARDs.
Canakinumab: (Major) Concomitant use of anakinra with other drugs that also block interleukin (IL)-1, such as canakinumab, is not recommended; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection.
Certolizumab pegol: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of anakinra with biological DMARDs, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) modifiers; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection with no additional clinical benefit. Data suggest a higher rate of serious infections when anakinra and a TNF inhibitor is used in combination with anakinra compared with either drug given alone. Neutropenia (1,000/mcL or less) was observed in 2% of patients receiving the combination. The use of anakinra with a TNF inhibitor in combination did not yield any additional clinical benefit as compared to the use of the TNF inhibitor alone.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Etanercept: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of anakinra with biological DMARDs, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) modifiers; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection with no additional clinical benefit. Data suggest a higher rate of serious infections when anakinra and a TNF inhibitor is used in combination with anakinra compared with either drug given alone. Neutropenia (1,000/mcL or less) was observed in 2% of patients receiving the combination. The use of anakinra with a TNF inhibitor in combination did not yield any additional clinical benefit as compared to the use of the TNF inhibitor alone.
Golimumab: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of anakinra with biological DMARDs, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) modifiers; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection with no additional clinical benefit. Data suggest a higher rate of serious infections when anakinra and a TNF inhibitor is used in combination with anakinra compared with either drug given alone. Neutropenia (1,000/mcL or less) was observed in 2% of patients receiving the combination. The use of anakinra with a TNF inhibitor in combination did not yield any additional clinical benefit as compared to the use of the TNF inhibitor alone.
inFLIXimab: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of anakinra with biological DMARDs, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) modifiers; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection with no additional clinical benefit. Data suggest a higher rate of serious infections when anakinra and a TNF inhibitor is used in combination with anakinra compared with either drug given alone. Neutropenia (1,000/mcL or less) was observed in 2% of patients receiving the combination. The use of anakinra with a TNF inhibitor in combination did not yield any additional clinical benefit as compared to the use of the TNF inhibitor alone.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Live Vaccines: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Rilonacept: (Major) Concomitant use of anakinra with other drugs that also block interleukin (IL)-1, such as rilonacept, is not recommended; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection.
riTUXimab: (Major) Utilize caution with concomitant use of rituximab with other biologic agents, such as anakinra; coadministration may result in additive immunosuppression and an increased risk of infection. Limited data are available on the safety of the use of biologic agents in rheumatoid arthritis patients exhibiting peripheral B-cell depletion following treatment with rituximab. Monitor patients closely for signs or symptoms of infection.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Major) Utilize caution with concomitant use of rituximab with other biologic agents, such as anakinra; coadministration may result in additive immunosuppression and an increased risk of infection. Limited data are available on the safety of the use of biologic agents in rheumatoid arthritis patients exhibiting peripheral B-cell depletion following treatment with rituximab. Monitor patients closely for signs or symptoms of infection.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Sarilumab: (Major) Avoid using sarilumab with other biological DMARDs including interleukin-1 receptor antagonists such as anakinra; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Tocilizumab: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of tocilizumab with biological DMARDs, including interleukin-1 receptor antagonists such as anakinra; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection.
Tofacitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tofacitinib with biologic DMARDs, such as anakinra; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection.
Tumor Necrosis Factor modifiers: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of anakinra with biological DMARDs, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) modifiers; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection with no additional clinical benefit. Data suggest a higher rate of serious infections when anakinra and a TNF inhibitor is used in combination with anakinra compared with either drug given alone. Neutropenia (1,000/mcL or less) was observed in 2% of patients receiving the combination. The use of anakinra with a TNF inhibitor in combination did not yield any additional clinical benefit as compared to the use of the TNF inhibitor alone.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Upadacitinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of upadacitinib with biologic DMARDs, such as anakinra; coadministration has not been studied and may result in additive immunosuppression and increased risk of infection.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

COVID-19 per the Emergency Use Authorization (EUA): Anakinra is not FDA-approved to treat coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19); however, the FDA has issued an EUA which allows for anakinra to be used in certain patients with COVID-19. Under the EUA, health care providers are required to report all medication errors and serious adverse events potentially related to anakinra therapy within 7 calendar days from the health care provider's awareness of the event.

anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), pruritus, rash, urticaria


Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, urticaria, rash, and pruritus have been reported with the use of anakinra. Patients with deficiency of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (DIRA) may be at increased risk for hypersensitivity reactions, particularly during the first weeks of therapy; closely monitor patients during this time period. In a study of patients with DIRA, rash was one of the most commonly reported adverse reactions and 1 patient experienced a serious reaction of urticaria on Day 10 of therapy. Rash was also observed in 3.7% (n = 15/405) of patients who received anakinra for the treatment of COVID-19 during the clinical trials. In patients with autoinflammatory conditions, postmarketing use of anakinra has been linked to cases of Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS). If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs, immediately discontinue anakinra, initiate appropriate therapy, and monitor the patient until signs and symptoms resolve.


cutaneous amyloidosis, ecchymosis, injection site reaction


The most common adverse reaction of anakinra subcutaneous administration is injection site reaction, which usually occurs during the first 4 weeks of treatment and is more common in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) than in patients with Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID). In clinical trials of patients with RA (n= 1,565), 71% of patients developed an injection site reaction; 72.6% were characterized as mild, 24.1% as moderate, and 3.2% as severe. In an open-label trial of NOMID patients (n = 43), 16.3% experienced an injection site reaction; during the 60-month study period, 65% of the injection site reactions occurred during the first month and 76% were reported during the first 6 months; 76% were characterized as mild and 24% as moderate. In a study of 9 patients with Deficiency of Interleukin-1 Receptor Antagonist (DIRA), there was 1 report of injection site pain. These reactions typically last for 14 to 28 days and are characterized by localized erythema, ecchymosis, edema, inflammation, itching, and/or pain. To decrease pain, swelling, and bruising at the injection site, apply a cold compress before and/or after the injection and allow the solution warm to room temperature prior to injection. Injection site amyloid deposits (cutaneous amyloidosis) have been reported during postmarketing use with anakinra. These deposits occurred in individuals receiving high doses of anakinra injected subcutaneously into the same area of skin over long periods of time. Systemic AIL 1RAP (IL-1 receptor antagonist protein) amyloidosis occurred in some of these individuals with injection site amyloid deposits; these individuals presented with proteinuria. Rotate injection sites with anakinra administration. In individuals with confirmed injection site amyloid deposits, monitor proteinuria for systemic amyloidosis.


infection, pharyngitis, sinusitis


Anakinra has been associated with an increased risk of serious infections during clinical trials. Anakinra may increase the risk of tuberculosis (TB) or other atypical opportunistic infections. During postmarketing observation and in clinical studies, opportunistic infections consisting of fungal, mycobacterial, and bacterial pathogens have occurred. Infections have been noted in all organ systems and have been reported in patients receiving anakinra alone or in combination with immunosuppressive agents. Discontinue anakinra in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who develop a serious infection. In anakinra-treated patients with Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) or Deficiency of Interleukin-1 Receptor Antagonist (DIRA), weigh the risk of a disease flare when discontinuing anakinra against the potential risk of continued treatment. There is limited information regarding the use of anakinra in patients with COVID-19 and concomitant active serious infections. The risks and benefits of treatment with anakinra in COVID-19 patients with other concurrent infections should be considered. During RA clinical trials, the incidence of infection during the first 6 months in anakinra-treated patients was 39% vs. 37% in placebo-treated patients. Reported infections in patients with RA included upper respiratory tract infections (14%), sinusitis (7%), and influenza-like symptoms (6%). Serious infections occurred in 2% of anakinra-treated patients with RA over 6 months of therapy and 3% of treated patients after over 1 year of therapy. The serious infections were primarily bacterial infections such as cellulitis, pneumonia, and bone and joint infections. In open-label extension studies, the overall rate of serious infections was comparable to that observed during controlled trials. The use of TNF blockers with anakinra should be avoided. In patients with RA who received both anakinra and a TNF blocker (etanercept) for up to 24 weeks, the incidence of serious infections was 7%. The most common infections consisted of bacterial pneumonia (4 cases) and cellulitis (4 cases). One patient with pulmonary fibrosis and pneumonia died due to respiratory failure. RA patients with asthma had a higher incidence of serious infections during treatment with anakinra versus placebo-treated patients (4.5% vs 0%). In an open-label study of 43 patients with NOMID, infections were the most common type of serious adverse event; reporting frequency was highest in pediatric patients younger than 12 years of age and those younger than 2 years had the highest incidence of infection and related symptoms. The most common infections were upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis, ear infections (otitis media), and naso-pharyngitis (11.6%). The most common serious infections in NOMID patients were pneumonia and gastroenteritis. There were no deaths or permanent treatment discontinuation due to infection. Most NOMID patients (73%) have continued anakinra therapy once the infection resolved. In a natural history study of 9 patients (aged 1 months to 9 years) with DIRA treated for up to 10 years, infections were the most common type of serious adverse reaction with 5 events reported in 2 patients. Infections reported in patients with DIRA were upper respiratory tract infections, influenza-like illness, cellulitis, and gastroenteritis. In a placebo-controlled study in COVID-19 patients, serious infections were observed in 9.1% of patients treated with anakinra (n = 37/405) and 16.4% of patients who received placebo (n = 31/189).


eosinophilia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Anakinra treatment has been associated with hematologic side effects, including neutropenia. Monitoring of the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is recommended prior to and during the first year of treatment with anakinra (monitor at baseline, each month for 3 months, then quarterly). There are limited data regarding the effects of anakinra on neutrophil counts in patients with COVID-19; therefore, assess neutrophil counts prior to starting anakinra treatment for COVID-19 and monitor for neutropenia according to current clinical practices. In clinical trials, 8% of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) receiving anakinra had decreases in neutrophil counts of at least one World Health Organization (WHO) toxicity grade compared with 2% in the control group. Neutropenia (ANC 1,000/mm3 or less) was reported in 9 anakinra-treated patients (0.4%) and in 2% of patients treated with anakinra plus etanercept. Two of 43 (4.7%) patients with Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) experienced neutropenia after starting anakinra in a clinical trial; both cases were resolved during continued anakinra treatment. In RA trials, a total of 9% of anakinra recipients experienced increases in eosinophil differential percentage (eosinophilia) of at least 1 WHO toxicity grade compared to 3% of placebo-treated patients. WHO toxicity grade 1 decreases in platelet counts occurred in 2% of anakinra-treated patients and 0% of placebo-treated patients. Thrombocytopenia, including severe thrombocytopenia (i.e., platelet count less than 10,000/mm3), has been reported with the postmarketing use of anakinra. Hematologic adverse events observed during the clinical studies of anakinra for treatment of COVID-19 included leukopenia (3.5%; n = 14/405) and neutropenia (3%; n = 12/405).


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting


Adverse gastrointestinal (GI) events reported in 5% or more of patients treated with anakinra during rheumatoid arthritis clinical trials include nausea (8%), diarrhea (7%), and abdominal pain (5%). In an open-label study in 43 NOMID patients, vomiting (14%) was the most common GI adverse event. During the clinical studies of anakinra for treatment of COVID-19, constipation was observed in 9.1% (n = 37/405) of drug recipients.


arthralgia, headache


Headache and arthralgia are two of the most common adverse reactions to anakinra treatment. Headache occurred in 12% to 14% of patients during all clinical trials. Arthralgia occurred in 6% of anakinra-treated patients during rheumatoid arthritis (RA) clinical trials over a 6-month period and in 11.6% of 43 patients in a study of anakinra for Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID). In the RA trials, a total of 19% of anakinra recipients experienced worsening of rheumatoid arthritis, compared to 29% of placebo recipients.


fever


In an open-label study in 43 patients with Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID), treatment-emergent pyrexia (fever) was reported in 11.6% of patients. In a natural history study of 9 patients with Deficiency of Interleukin-1 Receptor Antagonist (DIRA), pyrexia was 1 of the most commonly reported adverse reactions. Fever was not reported as an adverse reaction in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.


hypercholesterolemia


Cholesterol elevations were observed in some patients treated with anakinra therapy (hypercholesterolemia incidence not reported).


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis


Elevated hepatic enzymes and non-infectious hepatitis have been reported during postmarketing use of anakinra. During the clinical studies of anakinra for treatment of COVID-19, increased transaminases and increased gamma-glutamyltransferase were observed in 30.8% (n = 125/405) and 13.8% (n = 56/405) of drug recipients, respectively.


anxiety


During clinical studies of anakinra for treatment of COVID-19, anxiety was observed in 8.1% (n = 33/405) of drug recipients.


hypothermia


During clinical studies of anakinra for treatment of COVID-19, hypothermia was observed in 7.4% (n = 30/405) of drug recipients.


nephrotoxicity


During clinical studies of anakinra for treatment of COVID-19, acute kidney injury or nephrotoxicity was observed in 6.4% (n = 26/405) of drug recipients.


antibody formation


As with all therapeutic proteins, the use of anakinra carries the risk for immunogenicity. Antibody formation to anakinra detected by the use of a highly sensitive anakinra-binding biosensor assay was present at least once over 36 months in 49% of patients with rheumatoid arthritis in 2 clinical trials. After at least 12 weeks of anakinra, 30 (2%) of the 1,615 patients with available data were seropositive in a cell-based assay for neutralizing antibodies against anakinra. Thirteen of the 30 patients had follow-up data; 5 remained positive for neutralizing antibodies at week 24. No correlation between antibody development and adverse events was noted. Immunogenicity was not evaluated in trials of patients with Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID).


hyperkalemia, hypernatremia


Electrolyte abnormalities observed during clinical studies of anakinra for treatment of COVID-19 included hypernatremia (9.6%; n = 39/405) and hyperkalemia (9.1%; n = 37/405).


new primary malignancy


The role of interleukin-1 blockers such as anakinra in the development of a new primary malignancy is unknown. In clinical trials, the number of lymphoma cases among 5,300 patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with anakinra was 0.12 per 100 patient-years. The rate is 3.6-fold higher than the expected rate for the general population, based upon the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results database. In addition to lymphoma, 37 other cancers were observed including breast, melanoma, respiratory system, and digestive system. Consider the risks and benefits of anakinra before initiation in patients with a history of neoplastic disease. Also, consider the risk and benefits of anakinra continuation in patients who develop a malignancy.


Description

Anakinra is a recombinant, non-glycosylated form of the human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra). The drug is produced by recombinant DNA technology using an E. coli bacterial expression system. Anakinra is helpful for the treatment of Deficiency of Interleukin-1 Receptor Antagonist (DIRA), Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) such as Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), Familial Cold Auto-Inflammatory Syndrome (FCAS), and Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID), which is also called Chronic Infantile Neurological, Cutaneous and Articular Syndrome (CINCA). Of all the forms of CAPS, NOMID/CINCA has the highest severity of chronic inflammation. Among patients with NOMID, disease symptoms and serum markers of inflammation usually worsened within 5 days of anakinra withdrawal and promptly responded to anakinra re-initiation. In adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA), anakinra improves signs and symptoms of the disease and slows the progression of structural damage. Anakinra may be used as monotherapy or used with other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). However, anakinra is not commonly employed for RA treatment as other agents, such as the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers, have more robust efficacy data in treating RA and there is a daily injection burden for anakinra. The ideal combination of therapy for individual RA patients is determined by treat-to-target strategies and severity of disease. While anakinra has been studied in pediatric patients 2 years and older with polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA)/juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), the study data were insufficient to establish efficacy for this condition, and use for JRA/JIA is not recommended. Anakinra was initially FDA-approved in 2001.
 
Updates for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19):
Although not FDA approved for the treatment of COVID-19, the FDA has issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) which allows for anakinra to be used in certain patients with COVID-19. Specifically, the drug may be administered to treat hospitalized adults with COVID-19 pneumonia requiring supplemental oxygen (low- or high-flow oxygen) if they have a positive SARS-CoV-2 viral test, are at risk of progressing to severe respiratory failure, and are likely to have an elevated plasma soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR). The suPAR assay is not commercially available in the United States; however, patients meeting at least 3 of the following 8 criteria are considered likely to have a suPAR level of 6 ng/mL or greater at baseline (i.e., the level used in the SAVE-MORE trial to evaluate safety and efficacy of anakinra for COVID-19):
75 years or older
Severe pneumonia by the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria
Current or previous smoking status
Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score 3 or greater
Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) 7 or greater
Hemoglobin 10.5 g/dL or less
Medical history of ischemic stroke
Blood urea 50 mg/dL or more and/or medical history of renal disease
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) COVID-19 treatment guidelines state that available data are insufficient to recommend either for or against the use of anakinra for the treatment of COVID-19 in hospitalized patients. According to the NIH guidelines, data from randomized trials have not consistently demonstrated a benefit of using anakinra for COVID-19, the suPAR assays used to identify patients in the SAVE-MORE trial are not available in the United States, and the suPAR scoring system developed by the FDA requires further validation.

Mechanism Of Action

Anakinra acts similarly to the native interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra). IL-1Ra blocks the effects of IL-1 by competitively inhibiting the binding of IL-1, specifically IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta, to the interleukin-1 type 1 receptor (IL-1R1), which is expressed in a wide variety of tissues. IL-1Ra is part of the feedback loop that is designed to balance the effects of inflammatory cytokines. IL-1 is 1 of the primary pro-inflammatory cytokines associated with rheumatoid arthritis, acting synergistically with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Both IL-1 and TNF-alpha are expressed in the synovium of rheumatoid arthritis patients, although, IL-1, specifically IL-1beta, is secreted to a greater extent than TNF-alpha. IL-1 causes cartilage degradation by inducing the rapid loss of proteoglycans and stimulating the production of neutral proteinases in chondrocytes. Since IL-1 stimulates osteoclasts, bone resorption occurs. Rheumatoid arthritis patients who have bone erosions also have higher synovial fluid concentrations of IL-1 than rheumatoid arthritis patients with no bone erosions. These higher concentrations of IL-1 cannot be overcome by endogenous IL-1Ra. By administering exogenous IL-1Ra (i.e., anakinra), the erosive bone effects and bone resorption associated with IL-1 may be inhibited.
 
The efficacy of anakinra for the treatment of familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome appears to be related to inhibition of IL-1 beta, IL-6, and IL-8 in affected skin and to inhibition of increased IL-6 serum concentrations after cold exposure. In excess, IL-1 has been shown to be a key driver of inflammation in cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (CAPS), which is caused by a range of mutations in the gene CIAS1 that encodes the protein cryopyrin. Cryopyrin binds with an intrinsic inhibitor and controls the activation of caspase-1. Caspase-1 cleaves pro-interleukin-1beta and IL-18 into the biologically active forms. Patients with CAPS have increased caspase activity and thus, increased biologically active IL-1 beta. Enhanced caspase-1 activity with subsequent enhanced IL-1 beta and IL-18 release has been demonstrated in a patient with chronic infantile neurologic, cutaneous, articular (CINCA) syndrome. Anakinra receipt to several patients with different CAPS phenotypes led to the reduction of many CAPS clinical manifestations.
 
Deficiency of IL-1 receptor antagonist (DIRA) is due to mutations in the IL1RN gene leading to loss of secretion of the IL-1Ra. Loss of IL-1Ra results in unopposed signaling of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta, causing systemic inflammation with skin and bone involvement. Anakinra is the recombinant form of IL-1Ra that patients with DIRA are lacking.

Pharmacokinetics

Anakinra is given subcutaneously. In patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), no unexpected accumulation of anakinra was observed after daily subcutaneous doses for up to 24 weeks. The terminal half-life of anakinra ranges from 4 to 6 hours among patients with RA. Among patients with Neonatal Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID), the median half-life was 5.7 hours (range, 3.1 to 28.2 hours). Anakinra is renally eliminated; the mean clearance of the drug increases with increasing creatinine clearance and body weight.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Subcutaneous Route

The absolute bioavailability of anakinra after subcutaneous injection in healthy subjects is 95%. After administration to subjects with RA, the maximum plasma concentration occurs within 3 to 7 hours. In NOMID patients (n = 16) receiving a median dose of 3 mg/kg once daily subcutaneously and a median treatment time of 3.5 years, the steady-state median (range) maximal concentration (Cmax) was 3,628 (655 to 8,511) ng/mL and the median (range) 24-hour concentration was 203 (53 to 1,979) ng/mL.

Hepatic Impairment

No formal studies have been performed to examine the pharmacokinetic parameters of anakinra administered subcutaneously in patients with hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

The estimated anakinra clearance increased with increasing creatinine clearance and body weight in a pharmacokinetic study using daily subcutaneous doses of anakinra. Among patients with severe or end-stage renal disease, defined as creatinine clearance (CrCl) less than 30 mL/minute, the mean plasma clearance of anakinra decreased by 70% and 75%, respectively. The mean plasma clearance of anakinra decreased by 50% in patients with a CrCl of 30 to 49 mL/minute and by 16% in patients with a CrCl of 50 to 80 mL/minute. Less than 2.5% of an administered dose is removed by either hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Based on these observations, a dose schedule change should be considered for subjects with severe renal insufficiency or end-stage renal disease.

Geriatric

After adjusting for creatinine clearance and body weight, age was not a significant factor for the mean plasma clearance of anakinra during a pharmacokinetic study.

Gender Differences

After adjusting for creatinine clearance and body weight, gender was not a significant factor for the mean plasma clearance of anakinra in a pharmacokinetic study. In a study of NOMID patients, there was no obvious gender influence on anakinra pharmacokinetics.

Obesity

The estimated anakinra clearance increased with increasing creatinine clearance and body weight in a pharmacokinetic study.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
COVID-19 per the Emergency Use Authorization (EUA)
NOTE: Anakinra is not FDA-approved to treat coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19); however, the FDA issued an EUA allowing for use in certain patients with COVID-19. Under the EUA, health care providers are required to communicate to the patient or caregiver information consistent with the "Fact Sheet for Patients and Caregivers" prior to administration of anakinra. If providing this information delays treatment to a degree that would endanger the life of the patient, then the information must be provided as soon as practical following anakinra administration.
 
NOTE: Under the EUA, health care providers are required to report all medication errors and serious adverse events potentially related to anakinra therapy within 7 calendar days from the health care provider's awareness of the event.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Do not use if the solution is discolored or cloudy or if foreign particulate matter is present. Trace amounts of small, translucent-to-white, amorphous particles of protein may be in the solution. However, do not use the syringe if the number of translucent-to-white, amorphous particles appears excessive.


Intravenous Administration

NOTE: Anakinra is not approved by the FDA for intravenous administration.
Dilution
Dilute in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to a final concentration of 1 to 5 mg/mL.
Protect the bag from light.
Storage: Following preparation, use the bag within 8 hours.
 
Intermittent IV Push
No dilution is necessary.
Administer anakinra using a prefilled syringe as a slow IV bolus over 1 to 3 minutes. Follow with a 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection flush.
 
Intermittent IV Infusion
Infuse over 30 to 60 minutes.
Anakinra is light sensitive. Protect the bag and tubing from light during administration.
Do not administer concomitantly with other medications through the same infusion line.


Subcutaneous Administration


Refer to the manufacturer's Instructions for Use. Individuals or caregivers should receive appropriate training before self-administration.
Remove the prefilled syringe from the refrigerator and allow it to reach room temperature for 30 minutes before administration. Do not warm the syringe by other methods.
The prefilled syringe cannot accurately deliver doses less than 20 mg. For doses less than 100 mg, prepare the dose according to the manufacturer's instructions. Small air bubbles in the solution do not need to be removed before administration.
Rotate injection sites with each injection. Administer into the front of the middle thigh, abdomen (avoiding the 2-inch area around the navel), upper outer buttocks, or outer upper arm (if administered by a caregiver). Avoid injection into areas that are tender, bruised, erythematous, indurated, scarred, affected by stretch marks, or near visible veins.
The prefilled syringe is for single use only and contains no preservative. Discard any unused medication remaining in the syringe after administration.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

100 mg/day subcutaneously for most indications; doses up to 8 mg/kg/day subcutaneously are used for selected indications.

Geriatric

100 mg/day subcutaneously.

Adolescents

8 mg/kg/day subcutaneously is FDA-approved maximum; however, doses up to 10 mg/kg/day IV or subcutaneously have been used off-label.

Children

8 mg/kg/day subcutaneously is FDA-approved maximum; however, doses up to 10 mg/kg/day IV or subcutaneously have been used off-label.

Infants

8 mg/kg/day subcutaneously is FDA-approved maximum; however, doses up to 10 mg/kg/day IV or subcutaneously have been used off-label.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Kineret 100mg/0.67ml Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

CrCl 30 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl less than 30 mL/minute: Increased risk of adverse reactions; consider administration of the prescribed dose every other day instead of daily for both RA and NOMID.
 
Dosage Adjustments for COVID-19 per EUA:
CrCl 30 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl less than 30 mL/minute: Consider 100 mg every other day for a total of 5 doses over 10 days for patients with severe renal insufficiency or end-stage renal disease. Use in COVID-19 patients with end-stage renal failure necessitating hemofiltration or peritoneal hemodialysis has not been studied.

© 2026 Elsevier