=== Tiotropium/Olodaterol (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 4000)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Tiotropium; olodaterol is a combination inhalation containing a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), tiotropium, and a long-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist (LABA), olodaterol.

Routes: inhalation; Common adult doses: 5 mcg/day of tiotropium and 5 mcg/day of olodaterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 2 inhalations/day of Stiolto Respimat 2.5/2.5).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): candidiasis, fever, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, cough, dysphonia, epistaxis, laryngitis, arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, gastroesophageal reflux, gi obstruction, gingivitis, ileus, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, pruritus, rash (unspecified), skin ulcer, urticaria, xerosis, atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypokalemia, palpitations

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. It is also contraindicated in people with hypersensitivity to ipratropium, a related medication.

Brand Names
  - STIOLTO RESPIMAT

Dosage Forms
  - STIOLTO RESPIMAT 2.5mcg-2.5mcg/actuation Inhalation Solution

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation aerosol)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mcg tiotropium; 5 mcg olodaterol (2 actuations of 2.5 mcg tiotropium; 2.5 mcg olodaterol) inhaled by mouth once daily. Max: 5 mcg/day tiotropium; 5 mcg/day olodaterol (2 actuations/day).
    Heading
    For the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (e.g., chronic bronchitis or emphysema)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. It is also contraindicated in people with hypersensitivity to ipratropium, a related medication. Given the similar structural formula of atropine to tiotropium, individuals with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to atropine or its derivatives should be closely monitored for similar hypersensitivity reactions.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Tiotropium; olodaterol is not FDA-approved for the treatment of asthma. All long-acting beta agonists (LABAs) are contraindicated for monotherapy treatment of asthma and, in patients with asthma, must be used with an asthma controller medication (i.e., inhaled corticosteroid). Do not use tiotropium; olodaterol in combination with another LABA due to the risk for overdose. Do not exceed the maximum recommended tiotropium; olodaterol daily dosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs.
Do not use tiotropium; olodaterol as a reliever therapy for acute bronchospasm. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled short-acting beta agonist (SABA). Increasing use of inhaled SABAs is one marker of deteriorating COPD. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen. Tiotropium; olodaterol should not be initiated in people with acutely deteriorating COPD, which may be a life-threatening condition. Tiotropium; olodaterol has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD. The use of the drug in this setting is inappropriate.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Do not use tiotropium; olodaterol in combination with another long-acting beta agonist (LABA) due to the risk for overdose. Do not exceed the maximum recommended tiotropium; olodaterol daily dosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs.
    Headline
    cardiac arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, hypertension
    General Information
    Tiotropium; olodaterol, like other beta2-agonists and sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency (coronary artery disease), cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Tiotropium; olodaterol can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, and cardiac arrhythmias, such as supraventricular tachycardia and extrasystoles. If such effects occur, tiotropium; olodaterol may need to be discontinued.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, seizure disorder
    General Information
    Tiotropium; olodaterol should be used cautiously in patients with hyperthyroidism (thyrotoxicosis), diabetes mellitus, history of seizure disorder, or other unusual responsiveness to other sympathomimetic amines. Beta-agonists may cause transient hyperglycemia. Doses of the related beta2-agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis.
    Headline
    closed-angle glaucoma
    General Information
    Tiotropium; olodaterol should be used with caution in individuals with closed-angle glaucoma since it may increase intraocular pressure and aqueous outflow resistance. Instruct individuals to contact a care provider immediately if they experience temporary ocular pain, mydriasis, cycloplegia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, or visual impairment.
    Headline
    bladder obstruction, prostatic hypertrophy, urinary retention
    General Information
    Tiotropium; olodaterol should be used with caution in people with urinary retention. Be alert for signs and symptoms of urinary retention (e.g., difficulty passing urine, painful urination), especially in tiotropium recipients with prostatic hypertrophy or bladder obstruction. Instruct patients to consult a care provider immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Individuals with moderate to severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 60 mL/minute) or renal failure should be monitored closely for anticholinergic side effects while taking tiotropium; olodaterol, since tiotropium is predominantly eliminated renally.
    Headline
    labor, pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies regarding the use of tiotropium; olodaterol during pregnancy; use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Based on animal reproduction studies, no structural abnormalities were observed when tiotropium was administered by inhalation to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses 790 and 8 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human daily inhalation dose (MRHDID). Increased post-implantation loss was observed in rats and rabbits administered tiotropium at maternally toxic doses 430 times and 40 times the MRHDID, respectively. Based on animal studies, olodaterol was not teratogenic when administered to pregnant rats or rabbits during organogenesis at inhalation doses of approximately 2,731 or 1,353 times the MRHDID (on an AUC basis), in rats or rabbits, respectively. There are no well-controlled human studies of the effects of tiotropium; olodaterol on preterm labor or labor at term. Because of the potential for beta-agonist interference with uterine contractility, use of tiotropium; olodaterol during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risks.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use caution when administering tiotropium; olodaterol during breast-feeding. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated maternal condition. It is unknown whether tiotropium or olodaterol is excreted in human breast milk; however, other beta-agonists have been detected in human breast milk. Because of low systemic maternal tiotropium concentrations after inhalation and poor absorption from the gastrointestinal tract (i.e. 2% to 3%), it is unlikely that clinically significant exposure to tiotropium will occur in a breast-feeding infant. Olodaterol has low oral bioavailability and low maternal serum concentrations after inhaled use. These criteria significantly limit the amount of systemic olodaterol exposure in the breastfed child.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use caution when administering tiotropium; olodaterol during breast-feeding. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated maternal condition. It is unknown whether tiotropium or olodaterol is excreted in human breast milk; however, other beta-agonists have been detected in human breast milk. Because of low systemic maternal tiotropium concentrations after inhalation and poor absorption from the gastrointestinal tract (i.e. 2% to 3%), it is unlikely that clinically significant exposure to tiotropium will occur in a breast-feeding infant. Olodaterol has low oral bioavailability and low maternal serum concentrations after inhaled use. These criteria significantly limit the amount of systemic olodaterol exposure in the breastfed child.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aclidinium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists. (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Anticholinergics: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Atomoxetine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Atropine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benztropine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects. (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Additive effects and increased toxicity might be observed when using cocaine with beta-agonists, which are sympathomimetic agents. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive adrenergic stimulation and side effects, such as nervousness, insomnia, palpitations, or adverse cardiovascular effects.
Dicyclomine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
flavoxATE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Formoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects. (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Hyoscyamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in olodaterol-related adverse effects, including increased heart rate and QT prolongation, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase olodaterol exposure. No dose adjustment of olodaterol is necessary. In a drug interaction study using the strong dual CYP and P-gp inhibitor ketoconazole, a 1.7-fold increase of olodaterol inhalation maximum plasma concentrations and AUC was observed. No dose adjustment is necessary. Olodaterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in olodaterol-related adverse effects, including increased heart rate and QT prolongation, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase olodaterol exposure. No dose adjustment of olodaterol is necessary. In a drug interaction study using the strong dual CYP and P-gp inhibitor ketoconazole, a 1.7-fold increase of olodaterol inhalation maximum plasma concentrations and AUC was observed. No dose adjustment is necessary. Olodaterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Linezolid may enhance the hypertensive effect of beta-agonists. Closely monitor for increased blood pressure during coadministration. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic agents, such as the beta-agonists.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Beta-agonists, such as olodaterol, may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation. Beta-agonists should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QT interval because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with olodaterol include ritonavir.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Methacholine: (Major) Discontinue use of olodaterol 48 hours before a methacholine challenge test. Beta-agonists inhibit the airway response to methacholine. (Major) Discontinue use of tiotropium 168 hours or more before a methacholine challenge test. Tiotropium inhibits the airway response to methacholine.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Methscopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
metOLazone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Beta-agonists, such as olodaterol, may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation. Beta-agonists should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QT interval because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with olodaterol include ritonavir.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
oxyBUTYnin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Procarbazine: (Major) Procarbazine has MAOI activity and the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. Although no data are available, procarbazine may interact similarly. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-agonists are administered within two weeks of stopping the MAOI.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using prescription beta-agonists for the treatment of asthma should generally avoid the concurrent use of racepinephrine inhalation since additive cardiovascular and nervous system adverse effects are possible, some which may be undesirable.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetic agents was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and respiratory adrenergic agents (e.g., the beta-agonists). Although sympathomimetic agents are contraindicated for use with traditional non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. However, the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. At least one case of hypertension occurred in a patient with previous episodes of high blood pressure who was receiving albuterol and selegiline, a selective MAOI related to rasagiline, concurrently. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-2 agonists are administered during or within 2 weeks of use of an MAOI.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation, ribociclib and long-acting beta-agonists should be used together cautiously. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses, when associated with hypokalemia, or when used with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval like ribociclib. This risk may be more clinically significant with long-acting beta-agonists such as olodaterol as compared to short-acting beta-agonists.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation, ribociclib and long-acting beta-agonists should be used together cautiously. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses, when associated with hypokalemia, or when used with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval like ribociclib. This risk may be more clinically significant with long-acting beta-agonists such as olodaterol as compared to short-acting beta-agonists.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Beta-agonists, such as olodaterol, may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation. Beta-agonists should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QT interval because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with olodaterol include ritonavir.
Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, ((e.g., theophylline and aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated. (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, (e.g., theophylline, aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    In March 2008, the FDA and the manufacturer alerted health care professionals of a possible increased risk for stroke in patients taking tiotropium based on the pooled analysis of safety data from 29 placebo controlled studies. Since these initial communications, FDA has completed its analysis of the Understanding the Potential Long-Term Impacts on Function with Tiotropium (UPLIFT) trial. UPLIFT was a large, 4-year clinical trial that compared tiotropium to placebo in 5,992 patients with COPD. In the UPLIFT trial, there was no significant increase in the risk of stroke [0.95 (95% CI 0.70, 1.29)], heart attack [0.73 (95% CI 0.53, 1.00)], or cardiovascular death [0.73 (95% CI 0.56, 0.96)] between tiotropium and placebo. In November 2009, the FDA Pulmonary - Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee also reviewed data from the UPLIFT trial and voted that the findings adequately resolve the potential safety concerns for stroke, heart attack and cardiovascular death. FDA has now completed its review and believes the available data do not support an association between the use of tiotropium and an increased risk for these serious adverse events.
    Headline
    candidiasis, fever, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Naso-pharyngitis was among the most common adverse reactions in clinical trials for tiotropium; olodaterol. Naso-pharyngitis was reported in 12.4% of patients receiving the combination product, which was similar to patients receiving monotherapy with tiotropium (7—12.5%) or olodaterol (11.3%). Other infections were reported in 2%) was one of the most common serious adverse reactions with olodaterol monotherapy. Pyrexia (fever) was reported in > 2% of patients receiving olodaterol monotherapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      candidiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dysphonia, epistaxis, laryngitis
    General Information
    A 52 week, double-blind, active-controlled clinical trials for tiotropium; olodaterol combination product reported cough as the most common respiratory adverse reaction, affecting 3.9% of patients. This study reported a higher percentage of cough in patients taking tiotropium alone (5.8%); however, of patients taking olodaterol alone, only 4.2% reported cough as an adverse reaction. Other respiratory adverse events were reported in 3% and fewer of patients receiving tiotropium; olodaterol, including epistaxis, dysphonia, and laryngitis. Lung cancers were reported in 0.7%, 0.3%, and 0.2% patients who received olodaterol 10 mcg, 5 mcg, and placebo, respectively. This has not been reported in patients receiving tiotropium; olodaterol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      laryngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal adverse events have been reported with tiotropium; olodaterol, including back pain (3.6%), arthralgia (<= 3%) and joint swelling (<= 3%). During clinical trials involving only tiotropium monotherapy, arthralgia (4.2%), myalgia (4%), and musculoskeletal pain (1—3%) were reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gastroesophageal reflux, GI obstruction, gingivitis, glossitis, ileus, stomatitis, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Tiotropium-containing products, including tiotropium; olodaterol combinations, may cause various gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events. In clinical trials with tiotropium; olodaterol combination therapy, the following adverse events were reported in <= 3% of patients: xerostomia (dry mouth), constipation, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), gingivitis, glossitis, stomatitis, and GI obstruction or ileus. The most common GI effect associated with tiotropium monotherapy is mild xerostomia (4.1—16% of patients). Xerostomia was often mild and often resolved during treatment. Constipation was reported in < 5.1% of patients and may be related to anticholinergic effects. The incidence of xerostomia and constipation increased with age during the 1 year trials. Other GI effects, such as vomiting (1—4%), dyspepsia (1—6%), dysphagia (< 1%), abdominal pain (5—6%), gastrointestinal disorder not otherwise specified (1—3%), gastroesophageal reflux (1—3%), and stomatitis (including ulcerative stomatitis) (1—3%) were also reported. Application site irritation noted during post-marketing reports with tiotropium monotherapy included glossitis, oral ulceration, and pharyngolaryngeal pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI obstruction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gingivitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      glossitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ileus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dehydration, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Dehydration was reported in <= 3% of patients being treated with tiotropium; olodaterol during clinical studies. Dependent peripheral edema was reported in 3—5% of patients during tiotropium monotherapy trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, pruritus, rash (unspecified), skin ulcer, urticaria, xerosis
    General Information
    Anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema (swelling of the lips, tongue, or throat), pruritus, and rash may occur with tiotropium; olodaterol. In hypersensitive patients, anaphylactic shock may be possible. In clinical trials with tiotropium; olodaterol, the following reactions occurred in <= 3% of patients: hypersensitivity (including anaphylactoid reactions), rash (unspecified), pruritus, angioedema, urticaria, skin ulcer, and xerosis (dry skin). This is comparable to the allergic reactions reported in patients during trials of tiotropium monotherapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      skin ulcer
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypokalemia, palpitations, QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
    General Information
    Tiotropium; olodaterol can produce clinically significant cardiovascular effects in some patients, as measured by pulse rate (sinus tachycardia), blood pressure (hypertension), and/or symptoms. Atrial fibrillation, palpitations, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), sinus tachycardia, and hypertension were reported in 3% or less of patients receiving tiotropium; olodaterol inhalation during clinical trials, but specific incidence rates for each of these side effects were not reported in the product label. Chest pain (unspecified) has been reported in 0.5% to less than 1% of patients receiving tiotropium inhaler monotherapy. During trials of olodaterol inhaler monotherapy, no treatment emergent cardiovascular side effects were reported. Beta2-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T wave, QT prolongation, and ST segment depression; the clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Beta-agonists may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Hypokalemia was not reported as a side effect during the pre-approval COPD clinical trials for tiotropium; olodaterol. Clinically relevant decreases in serum potassium were infrequent during clinical studies with long-term administration of olodaterol inhaler monotherapy, with the rates similar to placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysuria, urinary retention
    General Information
    Urinary retention due to anticholinergic effects, although unlikely, might occur if significant amounts of tiotropium are absorbed systemically. Urinary retention and dysuria have been reported in <= 3% of patients receiving tiotropium; olodaterol during clinical trials. Advise patients to promptly report new-onset signs and symptoms consistent with aggravation of prostatic hypertrophy or urinary tract or bladder neck obstruction including urinary retention, reduction in urinary flow, or pain while urinating. Use tiotropium; olodaterol cautiously in patients with pre-existing prostatic hypertrophy or other urinary tract disorders.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression, dizziness, headache, insomnia, paresthesias
    General Information
    Central nervous system (CNS) adverse effects reported in tiotropium; olodaterol clinical trials of tiotropium; olodaterol include dizziness (<= 3%) and insomnia (<= 3%). Since dizziness may occur, warn patients about engaging in activities such as driving and operating machinery until the effects of the inhalation are known. Dizziness has been reported with olodaterol monotherapy (2.3%) and with tiotropium monotherapy (1—3%). During clinical trials with tiotropium monotherapy, other reported CNS effects included dysphonia (1—3%), paresthesias (1—3%), depression (1—4.4%) insomnia (4.4%) and headache (5.7%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, ocular hypertension, ocular irritation, ocular pain, visual impairment
    General Information
    During tiotropium; olodaterol clinical trials, <= 3% of patients experienced increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and blurred vision. Tiotropium may increase intraocular pressure and aqueous outflow resistance and may precipitate or exacerbate ocular hypertension or closed-angle glaucoma. Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and blurred vision have occurred during postmarketing experience with tiotropium monotherapy. Advise patients to promptly report new-onset signs and symptoms of glaucoma including ocular pain or discomfort, blurred vision or other visual impairment for evaluation. Temporary ocular irritation, ocular pain, mydriasis, cycloplegia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, or visual impairment may result from inadvertent ocular exposure to tiotropium inhalations; patients should ensure that they do not spray tiotropium; olodaterol in the eyes. Since dizziness and blurred vision may occur, warn patients about engaging in activities such as driving and operating machinery.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ocular irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    asthma-related death, bronchospasm, wheezing
    General Information
    Bronchospasm was reported in 3% or less patients during clinical trials of tiotropium; olodaterol. An increase in the need for rescue inhaler use and/or worsening wheezing or bronchospasm may occur during therapy with olodaterol-containing products, including the tiotropium;olodaterol combination. Symptoms of a deterioration of the underlying respiratory condition can be potentially life-threatening. Advise patients not to exceed recommended doses of tiotropium; olodaterol, but instead, seek immediate medical attention if such symptoms occur. Long-acting beta-2 agonists (LABAs) such as olodaterol have been associated with severe exacerbations and asthma-related death when used as monotherapy in patients with asthma. When LABAs are used in fixed-dose combination with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), data from large clinical trials do not show a significant increase in the risk of serious asthma-related events (hospitalizations, intubations, death) compared with ICS alone. The use of a LABA as asthma monotherapy, without an ICS, is associated with an increased risk of asthma-related death. These findings are considered a class effect of LABA monotherapy. In most cases, serious acute respiratory events have occurred in patients with severe asthma and/or in patients in whom asthma has been acutely deteriorating, but such events have also occurred in patients with less severe asthma. These findings pertain only to patients who have asthma.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthma-related death
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Inhalation of high doses of beta2-agonists may produce increases in plasma glucose. Clinically notable changes in blood glucose (hyperglycemia) were infrequent during clinical studies with long-term administration of olodaterol at the recommended doses, at rates similar to placebo controls. Hypercholesterolemia was reported in 1% to 3% of patients taking tiotropium monotherapy during short-term trials for COPD, but was not reported in long-term clinical trials for monotherapy as a treatment-related adverse reaction and was not reported with tiotropium; olodaterol inhaler.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Tiotropium; olodaterol is a combination inhalation containing a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), tiotropium, and a long-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist (LABA), olodaterol. The combination is administered once daily and is used for the maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction in adults with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD guidelines recommend initial therapy with a LABA plus LAMA combination for individuals in Group B and for many individuals in Group E, particularly in the absence of features suggesting likely benefit from ICS-containing therapy. Studies comparing dual bronchodilator therapy with long-acting bronchodilator monotherapy have shown that LABA plus LAMA combinations improve symptoms, lung function, and reduce COPD exacerbations more effectively than monotherapy in many patients. Tiotropium; olodaterol is not indicated for the relief of acute deterioration of COPD, for acute bronchospasm, or for the treatment of asthma. Tiotropium; olodaterol was FDA-approved in 2015.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Tiotropium is a respiratory antimuscarinic or long-acting antimuscarinic antagonist (LAMA), which is often referred to as an anticholinergic; olodaterol is a long-acting, selective beta-2 agonist (LABA).
Tiotropium: Tiotropium antagonizes the action of acetylcholine by blocking muscarinic cholinergic receptors. The parasympathetic nervous system has an important role in the automatic control of the airways and is responsible for resting bronchomotor tone in COPD. Tiotropium has both bronchodilatory and bronchoprotective actions and is antagonistic at M1, M2, and M3 muscarinic receptors. Each muscarinic receptor serves a unique physiological function. M1 receptors facilitate cholinergic neurotransmission via parasympathetic ganglia. M2 receptors, located on post-ganglionic cholinergic nerves, modulate negative feedback for acetylcholine release. M3 receptors, found on bronchial smooth muscle and mucous glands, are responsible for the airway contraction and mucous secretion in response to acetylcholine. Tiotropium is selective for and dissociates slowly from M1 and M3 receptors (which mediate bronchoconstriction), and dissociates more rapidly from M2 receptors (which inhibit acetylcholine release from cholinergic nerve endings). In the lung, this receptor antagonism and slow dissociation results in bronchodilation and a 24-hour duration of action. The half-lives for release of tiotropium from the M1, M2 and M3 receptors are 14.6, 3.6 and 34.7-hours, respectively. Tiotropium is 10-fold more potent than ipratropium. For all receptor subtypes, tiotropium dissociates more slowly than ipratropium (0.04—0.26-hour half-life). Dose-ranging studies have shown that increases in FEV1 are dose-dependent up to a 72 mcg single dose with values remaining above baseline FEV1 for 72 hours.
Olodaterol: Olodaterol is a long-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist (LABA). Beta-2 receptors are present in large numbers in the lungs and are located on bronchiolar smooth muscle. Stimulation of beta-2 receptors in the lung causes relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, which produces bronchodilation and a resultant increase in bronchial airflow. These effects are believed to be mediated, in part, by increased activity of adenyl cyclase, an intracellular enzyme responsible for the formation of cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Inhalation Route
    Description
    Tiotropium: Following oral inhalation, there is minimal systemic absorption of tiotropium, reducing the chance for systemic side effects. Roughly 20% of a dose is deposited in the lung. The onset of action is within 30 minutes, but duration of action is close to 24 hours allowing once-daily dosing. Peak effects (increase in FEV1 of 19—26% greater than baseline) occur in roughly 1 to 4 hours. Peak and trough plasma concentrations are roughly 16 ng/L and 4 ng/L, respectively, although plasma levels are not used to monitor clinical response. Peak concentrations are achieved in 5 minutes, and trough levels in < 60 minutes. With dosing compliance of the inhalation formulation, steady-state is achieved within the first week of therapy.
Olodaterol: Olodaterol reaches maximum plasma concentrations generally within 10 to 20 minutes following drug inhalation. In healthy volunteers, the absolute bioavailability of olodaterol following inhalation was estimated to be approximately 30%, whereas the absolute bioavailability was below 1% when given as an oral solution. Thus, the systemic availability of olodaterol after inhalation is mainly determined by lung absorption, while any swallowed portion of the dose only negligibly contributes to systemic exposure.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Tiotropium: Pharmacokinetic studies in patients with hepatic impairment have not been undertaken; however, no adjustments to dosage are required.
Olodaterol: Differences in Cmax, AUC, and protein binding of olodaterol were not apparent between mild and moderate hepatically impaired subjects and their healthy adult controls. A study in subjects with severe hepatic impairment was not performed.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Tiotropium: In pharmacokinetic study, following 4-weeks of once daily dosing with tiotropium inhalation spray in patients with COPD, mild renal impairment (CrCl 60—90 mL/min) resulted in 23% higher AUC and 17% higher Cmax at steady-state and moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30—60 mL/min) resulted in 57% higher AUC and 31% higher Cmax at steady state when compared to COPD patients with normal renal function (CrCl > 90 mL/min). Data in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl < 30 mL/min) are insufficient. In one pharmacokinetic study, the AUC and Cmax were 94% and 52% higher, respectively, in patients with severe renal impairment following intravenous infusion of tiotropium compared to healthy adults. Patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (CrCl <= 50 mL/min) may be at an increased risk of anticholinergic-induced events; although an increase in monitoring may be needed, dosage adjustments are generally not required.
Olodaterol: Olodaterol levels were increased by approximately 40% in subjects with severe renal impairment. A study in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment was not performed.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Tiotropium: As expected for all predominantly renally excreted drugs, advancing age was associated with a decrease of tiotropium renal clearance. This did not result in a corresponding increase in tiotropium exposure or maximum concentration values at steady state.
Olodaterol: There was no effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of olodaterol.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Olodaterol: There was no effect of gender on the pharmacokinetics of olodaterol.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Olodaterol: There was no effect of weight (BMI) on the pharmacokinetics of olodaterol.
  Text
  Tiotropium; olodaterol is administered by oral inhalation. The pharmacokinetic parameters for the combination product tiotropium; olodaterol (Stiolto Respimat) were similar to those observed when each active substance was administered separately.
Tiotropium: A pharmacokinetic study in patients with COPD evaluating once-daily tiotropium delivered from the inhalation spray (5 mcg dose) and as inhalation powder (18 mcg dose) resulted in a similar systemic exposure between the two products. In an unpublished study, accumulation of tiotropium did not occur in the plasma or urine once steady-state was achieved. Approximately 7% of the delivered dose (roughly equivalent to 0.25 mcg) appears unchanged in the urine at steady-state. Metabolic transformation is not known. The mean plasma terminal elimination half-life is 5 to 6 days. In a pharmacokinetic study, 74% of intravenously administered tiotropium was excreted in urine as unchanged drug. Increases in FEV1 have been shown to be dose-related. Trough FEV1 and FVC have been shown to average greater than 12% over baseline one week after tiotropium administration.
Olodaterol: Olodaterol is substantially metabolized by direct glucuronidation and by O-demethylation at the methoxy moiety followed by conjugation. Of the six metabolites identified, only the unconjugated demethylation product binds to beta-2 receptor. This metabolite, however, is undetectable in plasma after chronic inhalation of the recommended therapeutic dose. Total clearance of olodaterol in healthy volunteers is 872 mL/min, and renal clearance is 173 mL/min. The terminal half-life following IV administration and inhalation in contrast is 22 hours and 45 hours, respectively, indicating that the latter is determined by absorption rather than by elimination processes. The effective half-life is 7.5 hours. Following IV administration of [14C]-labeled olodaterol, 38% of the radioactive dose was recovered in the urine and 53% was recovered in feces. The amount of unchanged olodaterol recovered in the urine after IV administration was 19%. Following oral administration, only 9% of olodaterol and/or its metabolites was recovered in urine, while the major portion was recovered in feces (84%). More than 90% of the dose was excreted within 6 and 5 days following IV and oral administration, respectively. Following inhalation, excretion of unchanged olodaterol in urine within the dosing interval in healthy volunteers at steady state accounted for 5% to 7% of the dose.
 
Tiotropium -- Affected Cytochrome P450 (CYP 450) enzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, CYP3A4
In vitro experiments with human liver microsomes and human hepatocytes suggest that a fraction of the administered dose (only 25% of an intravenous dose) is metabolized by CYP450-dependent oxidation and subsequent glutathione conjugation to a variety of Phase 2 metabolites. This enzymatic pathway can be inhibited by CYP2D6 and 3A4 inhibitors. Thus, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolic pathway that is responsible for the elimination of a small part of the administered dose. In vitro studies using human liver microsomes showed that tiotropium in supra-therapeutic concentrations does not inhibit CYP450 1A1, 1A2, 2B6, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, or 3A4.
 
Olodaterol -- Affected Cytochrome P450 (CYP 450) enzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C9, CYP2C8, CYP3A4, UGT2B7, UGT1A1, UGT1A7, and UGT1A9
Olodaterol is substantially metabolized by direct glucuronidation and by O-demethylation at the methoxy moiety followed by conjugation. CYP450 isozymes CYP2C9 and CYP2C8, with negligible contribution of CYP3A4, are involved in the O-demethylation of olodaterol, while uridine diphosphate glycosyl transferase (UGT) isoforms UGT2B7, UGT1A1, 1A7, and 1A9 were shown to be involved in the formation of olodaterol glucuronides. However, olodaterol has not been shown to induce or inhibit any CYP450 enzymes or drug transporters.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Inhalation Administration
      Description
      Metered-dose inhaler aerosol (MDI) (i.e., Stiolto Respimat MDI)
Instruct patient on proper inhalation technique according to product directions. See the "Instructions for Use".
Prior to first use, insert the cartridge into the inhaler and prime the unit by actuating the inhaler toward the ground until an aerosol cloud is visible and then repeating the process three more times. The unit is then considered primed and ready for use. If the inhaler is not used for more than 3 days, actuate the inhaler once to prepare the inhaler for use. If not used for more than 21 days, actuate the inhaler until an aerosol cloud is visible and then repeat the process three more times to prepare the inhaler for use.
Administration:
Administer at approximately the same time each day.
Hold the inhaler upright with the light green cap closed, so as to not accidentally release a dose of medicine.
Step A: Turn the clear base in the direction of the black arrows on the label until it clicks (half a turn). Then, flip the light green cap until it snaps fully open.
Step B: Have patient breathe out slowly and fully, and then close their lips around the end of the mouthpiece without covering the air vents. Point the inhaler to the back of the throat. While the patient takes in a slow, deep breath through the mouth, press the dose release button and continue to have the patient breathe in slowly for as long as the patient can. The patient should hold the breath for 10 seconds or for as long as comfortable.
Repeat these steps (A and B) for the next inhalation, to administer the full dose.
Step C: After administering the required number of inhalations, close the light green cap until it is time to use the inhaler again.
The mouthpiece, including the metal part inside the mouthpiece, should be cleaned with a damp cloth or tissue only, at least once per week; any minor discoloration in the mouthpiece does not affect the inhaler. If the outside of the inhaler gets dirty, wipe it with a damp cloth.
The inhaler contains either 60 puffs (equal to 30 doses of medicine) or 28 puffs (equal to 14 doses of medicine) after prepared for the first use. The dose indicator shows approximately how much medicine is left. When the pointer enters the red area of the scale, there is enough medicine for 7 days (30-dose product) or 3 days (14-dose product); once the dose indicator has reached the end of the scale, all puffs have been used and the inhaler locks automatically. At this point, the base cannot be turned any further.
The inhaler should be discarded 3 months after insertion of cartridge into inhaler, even if all the medicine has not been used, or when the inhaler is locked, whichever comes first.
    Name
    Inhalation Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    5 mcg/day of tiotropium and 5 mcg/day of olodaterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 2 inhalations/day of Stiolto Respimat 2.5/2.5).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    5 mcg/day of tiotropium and 5 mcg/day of olodaterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 2 inhalations/day of Stiolto Respimat 2.5/2.5).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dose adjustment is needed in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment. A study in subjects with severe hepatic impairment was not performed.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed in renal impairment. However, patients with moderate to severe renal impairment should be monitored closely for anticholinergic effects of tiotropium; olodaterol.
