=== Apixaban — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3795)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Apixaban is an oral selective factor Xa inhibitor anticoagulant indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of thromboembolism in several clinical contexts.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, gi bleeding, hematemesis, hematoma, hematuria, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, menorrhagia, ocular hemorrhage, petechiae, spinal hematoma, stroke, thrombocytopenia, vaginal bleeding, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, rash

In an Overdose: Activated oral charcoal reduces absorption and lowers plasma concentrations of apixaban and may be useful in cases of overdose or accidental ingestion.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. premature discontinuation Avoid premature discontinuation of apixaban, as stopping therapy without adequate alternative anticoagulation increases the risk of thrombotic events. During...

APIXABAN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Eliquis

Indication Specific Dosing

General Dosing Information
Switching to and from Apixaban
Converting from warfarin to apixaban
Discontinue warfarin and start apixaban when the INR is less than 2.
Converting from apixaban to warfarin
Oral option: If continuous anticoagulation is necessary, continue apixaban and begin warfarin. Discontinue apixaban when INR is therapeutic. Apixaban interferes with INR; therefore, initial INR measurements during the transition to warfarin may be affected. INR should be measured just before the next apixaban dose to limit interference.
Parenteral option: Discontinue apixaban and administer a parenteral anticoagulant and warfarin at the time of the next scheduled apixaban dose. Once a stable INR of 2 or greater is achieved, discontinue the parenteral anticoagulant and continue warfarin.
Converting between apixaban and anticoagulants other than warfarin
Discontinue current agent and initiate the preferred agent at the time that the next dose would have been administered.


For the treatment and reduction in risk of recurrence of venous thromboembolism (VTE), including deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism

Oral dosage
Adults


10 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 5 mg PO twice daily for at least 3 months. Consider reducing dose to 2.5 mg PO twice daily if extended oral anticoagulation beyond 3 months is used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents weighing 35 kg or more


10 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 5 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months for provoked thrombosis or 6 to 12 months for unprovoked thrombosis.  For a provoked thrombosis, a longer duration of anticoagulation can be considered in patients with persistence of the causative risk factor. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents weighing 25 to 34 kg


8 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 4 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months for provoked thrombosis or 6 to 12 months for unprovoked thrombosis.  For a provoked thrombosis, a longer duration of anticoagulation can be considered in patients with persistence of the causative risk factor. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children weighing 18 to 24 kg


6 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 3 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months for provoked thrombosis or 6 to 12 months for unprovoked thrombosis.  For a provoked thrombosis, a longer duration of anticoagulation can be considered in patients with persistence of the causative risk factor. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 12 to 17 kg


4 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 2 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months for provoked thrombosis or 6 to 12 months for unprovoked thrombosis.  For a provoked thrombosis, a longer duration of anticoagulation can be considered in patients with persistence of the causative risk factor. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 9 to 11 kg


3 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 1.5 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months for provoked thrombosis or 6 to 12 months for unprovoked thrombosis.   For a provoked thrombosis, a longer duration of anticoagulation can be considered in patients with persistence of the causative risk factor. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 6 to 8 kg


2 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 1 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months for provoked thrombosis or 6 to 12 months for unprovoked thrombosis.  For a provoked thrombosis, a longer duration of anticoagulation can be considered in patients with persistence of the causative risk factor. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants weighing 4 to 5 kg


1 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 0.5 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months for provoked thrombosis or 6 to 12 months for unprovoked thrombosis. For a provoked thrombosis, a longer duration of anticoagulation can be considered in patients with persistence of the causative risk factor. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants weighing 2.6 to 3 kg


0.3 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 0.15 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months for provoked thrombosis or 6 to 12 months for unprovoked thrombosis.  For a provoked thrombosis, a longer duration of anticoagulation can be considered in patients with persistence of the causative risk factor. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Neonates weighing 4 to 5 kg


1 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 0.5 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months for provoked thrombosis or 6 to 12 months for unprovoked thrombosis. For a provoked thrombosis, a longer duration of anticoagulation can be considered in patients with persistence of the causative risk factor. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Neonates weighing 2.6 to 3 kg


0.3 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 0.15 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months for provoked thrombosis or 6 to 12 months for unprovoked thrombosis.  For a provoked thrombosis, a longer duration of anticoagulation can be considered in patients with persistence of the causative risk factor. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For stroke and systemic embolism prophylaxis in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation

Oral dosage
Adults


5 mg PO twice daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided, or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. For eligible individuals, direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) are preferred over warfarin therapy.


Adults with at least 2 of the following criteria: age 80 years or older, body weight 60 kg or less, and/or serum creatinine 1.5 mg/dL or more


2.5 mg PO twice daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided; review drug interactions. For eligible individuals, direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) are preferred over warfarin therapy.


For thrombosis prophylaxis, including deep venous thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis and pulmonary embolism prophylaxis

For reduction in the risk of recurrent venous thromboembolism, including DVT and/or pulmonary embolism, after completion of initial treatment
Oral dosage
Adults


2.5 mg PO twice daily. Although the FDA-approved product labeling recommends reduced dose apixaban after at least 6 months of standard anticoagulant therapy, guidelines recommend reduced dose apixaban after 3 months for extended-phase anticoagulation. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents weighing 35 kg or more†


5 mg PO twice daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents weighing 25 to 34 kg†


4 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 2.5 or 3.75 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children weighing 18 to 24 kg†


3 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 2.5 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 12 to 17 kg†


2 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 1.25 PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 9 to 11 kg†


1.5 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 1.25 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 6 to 8 kg†


1 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 0.625 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants weighing 5 kg†


0.5 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 0.625 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants weighing 4 kg†


0.3 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 0.625 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For DVT prophylaxis and pulmonary embolism prophylaxis in persons undergoing hip replacement surgery or hip fracture surgery†
Oral dosage
Adults


2.5 mg PO twice daily starting 12 to 24 hours after surgery. The FDA-approved labeling recommends continuation of prophylaxis for 35 days. Guidelines recommend continuation of prophylaxis for at least 10 to 14 days; up to 35 days is recommended. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Apixaban is recommended as an alternative to low molecular weight heparin as antithrombotic prophylaxis for persons undergoing major orthopedic surgery. The concomitant use of an intermittent pneumatic compression device (IPCD) during hospital stay is also encouraged. For persons who decline or are uncooperative with injections or an IPCD, apixaban is a preferred alternative for thromboprophylaxis.


For DVT prophylaxis and pulmonary embolism prophylaxis in persons undergoing knee replacement surgery
Oral dosage
Adults


2.5 mg PO twice daily starting 12 to 24 hours after surgery. The FDA-approved labeling recommends continuation of prophylaxis for 12 days. Guidelines recommend continuation of prophylaxis for at least 10 to 14 days; up to 35 days is recommended. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Apixaban is recommended as an alternative to low molecular weight heparin as antithrombotic prophylaxis for persons undergoing major orthopedic surgery. The concomitant use of an intermittent pneumatic compression device (IPCD) during hospital stay is also encouraged. For persons who decline or are uncooperative with injections or an IPCD, apixaban is a preferred alternative for thromboprophylaxis.


For thrombosis prophylaxis in pediatric patients with heart disease†
Oral dosage
Children and Adolescents weighing 35 kg or more


5 mg PO twice daily. Doses up to 7.5 mg PO twice daily have been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. 


Children and Adolescents weighing 25 to 34 kg


4 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 2.5 or 3.75 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children weighing 18 to 24 kg


3 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 2.5 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 12 to 17 kg


2 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 1.25 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 9 to 11 kg


1.5 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 1.25 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 6 to 8 kg


1 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 0.625 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants weighing 5 kg


0.5 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 0.625 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants weighing 4 kg


0.3 mg PO twice daily. A dose of 0.625 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants weighing 3 kg


0.2 mg PO twice daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. 


For the treatment of cerebral thromboembolism† (e.g., cerebral venous sinus thrombosis) after initial therapy with a parenteral anticoagulant

Oral dosage
Adults


5 mg PO twice daily for 3 to 12 months. A couple of case series studies have used an initial loading dose of 10 mg PO twice daily for the first 5 to 7 days of therapy.  In a retrospective, multicenter study (n = 845; n = 271 received apixaban) comparing direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) vs. warfarin in the treatment of cerebral venous thrombosis, DOAC treatment was associated with similar risk of recurrent venous thrombosis (adjusted hazard ratio (aHR), 0.94 [95% CI, 0.51 to 1.73]; p = 0.84), death (aHR, 0.78 [95% CI, 0.22 to 2.76]; p = 0.7), and rate of partial/complete recanalization (aOR, 0.92 [95% CI, 0.48 to 1.73]; p = 0.79), but a lower risk of major hemorrhage (aHR, 0.35 [95% CI, 0.15 to 0.82]; p = 0.02). In a systematic review and meta-analysis (n = 17 studies), the use of DOACs for cerebral venous thrombosis had similar efficacy and safety compared to vitamin K antagonists with better recanalization rate.


For the treatment and reduction in risk of recurrence of catheter-related thrombosis

Oral dosage
Adults


10 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 5 mg PO twice daily for 3 months if the catheter is removed. Consider longer duration of therapy if the catheter remains in place and a dose reduction to 2.5 mg PO twice daily if extended oral anticoagulation beyond 3 months is used. Most guidelines recommend continuing anticoagulation therapy for as long as the catheter remains in place; however, some guidelines suggest a shorter duration of 3 to 6 months. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents weighing 35 kg or more†


10 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 5 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months. Consider longer duration of therapy if the catheter remains in place. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents weighing 25 to 34 kg†


8 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 4 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months. Consider longer duration of therapy if the catheter remains in place. A dose of 2.5 or 3.75 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children weighing 18 to 24 kg†


6 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 3 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months. Consider longer duration of therapy if the catheter remains in place. A dose of 2.5 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 12 to 17 kg†


4 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 2 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months. Consider longer duration of therapy if the catheter remains in place. A dose of 1.25 or 2.5 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 9 to 11 kg†


3 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 1.5 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months. Consider longer duration of therapy if the catheter remains in place. A dose of 1.25 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants and Children weighing 6 to 8 kg†


2 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 1 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months. Consider longer duration of therapy if the catheter remains in place. A dose of 0.625 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants weighing 5 kg†


1 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 0.5 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months. Consider longer duration of therapy if the catheter remains in place. A dose of 0.625 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Infants weighing 4 kg†


0.6 mg PO twice daily for 7 days, then 0.3 mg PO twice daily for 6 weeks to 3 months. Consider longer duration of therapy if the catheter remains in place. A dose of 0.625 mg PO twice daily (based on feasibility of dividing commercially available tablets) has also been used. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

premature discontinuation


Avoid premature discontinuation of apixaban, as stopping therapy without adequate alternative anticoagulation increases the risk of thrombotic events. During clinical trials in atrial fibrillation, an increased rate of stroke was observed in individuals transitioned from apixaban to warfarin. If discontinuation is necessary for reasons other than pathological bleeding or completion of therapy, consider alternative anticoagulation.


neuraxial procedure, spinal deformity, spinal hematoma, spinal surgery


Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks before performing a neuraxial procedure in individuals who are receiving or are expected to receive apixaban. Epidural or spinal hematoma, which may result in long-term or permanent paralysis, can occur in anticoagulated individuals undergoing neuraxial anesthesia or spinal puncture. Risk factors for epidural or spinal hematoma include use of an indwelling epidural catheter, concomitant use of other agents that affect hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, platelet inhibitors, other anticoagulants), a history of spinal deformity or spinal surgery, and traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture. To reduce the risk of bleeding, do not remove an epidural or intrathecal catheter earlier than 24 hours after the last dose of apixaban, and do not administer the next dose until at least 5 hours after catheter removal. Delay administration for 48 hours after a traumatic puncture. However, optimal timing between administration of apixaban and neuraxial procedure is not known. Data are not available on the timing of neuraxial catheter placement or removal in pediatric patients receiving rivaroxaban; in such cases, discontinue rivaroxaban and consider a short-acting parenteral anticoagulant. Monitor individuals undergoing these procedures frequently for neurological impairment and instruct them to report symptoms immediately. If an epidural or spinal hematoma is suspected, urgently diagnose and treat, including consideration of spinal cord decompression.


bleeding, bleeding disorder, major bleeding


Apixaban is contraindicated in individuals with active major bleeding. It increases the risk of bleeding and can cause serious and potentially fatal bleeding. The risk of bleeding is higher in individuals with a history of bleeding or a bleeding disorder. Additionally, the risk may be increased with concomitant use of drugs affecting hemostasis, such as aspirin and other antiplatelet agents, other antithrombotic agents, thrombolytic agents, chronic use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs).


mitral stenosis, prosthetic heart valves


Apixaban has not been adequately studied in individuals with prosthetic heart valves or in those with moderate to severe mitral stenosis and therefore is not recommended.


planned procedure


Discontinue apixaban 48 hours before a planned procedure associated with a moderate or high risk of clinically significant or unacceptable bleeding. Discontinue apixaban 24 hours prior to a planned procedure with a low risk of bleeding or where bleeding would be considered noncritical in location and easily controlled. In general, it is not necessary to bridge anticoagulation during the 24 to 48 hours after stopping apixaban. Restart apixaban as soon as adequate homeostasis is achieved following the procedure.


Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Apixaban is not recommended in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. In individuals with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B), intrinsic coagulation abnormalities and limited clinical experience preclude specific dosing recommendations. Apixaban has not been studied in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment.


geriatric, renal failure, renal impairment


Use apixaban with caution in individuals with renal impairment or renal failure. A dose reduction is recommended for any individual with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation who meets at least 2 of the 3 following criteria: serum creatinine 1.5 mg/dL or higher, weight of 60 kg or less, and/or geriatric individuals 80 years or older. Apixaban is not recommended in pediatric patients 2 years and older with an eGFR less than 30 mL/minutes/1.73 m2 body surface area (BSA), or in children younger than 2 years with inadequate renal function based on postnatal age and threshold eGFR.


antiphospholipid antibody syndrome


Apixaban is not recommended in individuals with triple-positive antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (APS), defined as positivity for lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin, and anti-beta-2 glycoprotein I antibodies. Higher rates of recurrent thrombotic and bleeding events have occurred with use of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) in this population compared with vitamin K antagonists.


labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy


Use of apixaban during pregnancy and obstetric delivery may increase the risk of bleeding in both the pregnant person and the fetus or neonate. In addition, there is a risk of epidural or spinal hematoma associated with the use of apixaban in patients receiving neuraxial anesthesia during labor and obstetric delivery. Consider use of a shorter acting anticoagulant as delivery approaches. There are limited data on the use of apixaban during human pregnancy to inform of a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse developmental outcomes. In animal studies, no adverse developmental effects were seen when apixaban was given orally to rats and mice and intravenously to rabbits at unbound exposure levels up to 4, 19, and 1 times the human exposure, respectively, based on the AUC at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 5 mg twice daily. After oral administration from gestation day 6 through lactation day 21 at unbound apixaban exposures of 1.4 to 5 times human exposures at MRHD, there was an increased incidence of peri-vaginal bleeding in dams at all doses, but no evidence of neonatal bleeding.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with apixaban. Discuss pregnancy planning with people of reproductive potential requiring anticoagulation. Assess the risk of clinically significant uterine bleeding, potentially requiring gynecological surgical interventions, in people of reproductive potential and those with abnormal uterine bleeding.


neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Monitor neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero for bleeding. 


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking apixaban. Apixaban is excreted in human milk in significant amounts with a relative infant dose of 13% to 21%. There are no data on the effects on the breast-fed child or the effects on milk production. Other agents such as warfarin, heparin, enoxaparin, dalteparin, rivaroxaban, or dabigatran are preferred. 


Pregnancy And Lactation


Use of apixaban during pregnancy and obstetric delivery may increase the risk of bleeding in both the pregnant person and the fetus or neonate. In addition, there is a risk of epidural or spinal hematoma associated with the use of apixaban in patients receiving neuraxial anesthesia during labor and obstetric delivery. Consider use of a shorter acting anticoagulant as delivery approaches. There are limited data on the use of apixaban during human pregnancy to inform of a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse developmental outcomes. In animal studies, no adverse developmental effects were seen when apixaban was given orally to rats and mice and intravenously to rabbits at unbound exposure levels up to 4, 19, and 1 times the human exposure, respectively, based on the AUC at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 5 mg twice daily. After oral administration from gestation day 6 through lactation day 21 at unbound apixaban exposures of 1.4 to 5 times human exposures at MRHD, there was an increased incidence of peri-vaginal bleeding in dams at all doses, but no evidence of neonatal bleeding.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Alteplase: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thrombolytics and direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs). For acute ischemic stroke, avoid thrombolytics in patients that have received a DOAC within the previous 48 hours and consider delaying the initiation of anticoagulant therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those receiving a DOAC with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Amiodarone: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring for bleeding during concomitant use of apixaban and amiodarone in patients with additional risk factors for bleeding-related harm. Conflicting data suggests a possible increased risk for bleeding with the use of amiodarone and select direct-acting oral anticoagulants, such as apixaban. A drug interaction study has also described a 49% increase in apixaban trough concentrations without a meaningful change in peak concentrations.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic data suggest that no dose adjustment is necessary if apixaban is coadministered with clarithromycin. However, because clarithromycin is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, there is a potential for increased apixaban exposure and increased risk of bleeding with concurrent use of clarithromycin. Monitor patients closely if coadministration is necessary. When combined with other P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the manufacturer recommends reducing the apixaban dose by 50% and avoiding concomitant administration if patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily.
Anagrelide: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy: (Major) Avoid the use of amyloid-beta monoclonal antibody directed therapy in patients that require therapeutic anticoagulation. Anticoagulation may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients that develop other amyloid related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) while on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy.
Antithrombin III: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban with antithrombin III due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of apixaban and drugs that are combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as apalutamide. Concomitant use of apixaban and apalutamide may result in decreased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of stroke.
Argatroban: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban and thrombin inhibitors due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding. (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Atazanavir: (Major) Apixaban is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2C8; atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate/inhibitor and a minor inhibitor of CYP2C8. Coadministration of these drugs may increase apixaban plasma concentrations and risk of adverse events such as bleeding. Avoid concurrent administration if possible; if concurrent administration is required, monitor for signs of bleeding.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Apixaban is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2C8; atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate/inhibitor and a minor inhibitor of CYP2C8. Coadministration of these drugs may increase apixaban plasma concentrations and risk of adverse events such as bleeding. Avoid concurrent administration if possible; if concurrent administration is required, monitor for signs of bleeding. (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as cobicistat containing medications. If patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration. Concomitant administration results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Bivalirudin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban and thrombin inhibitors due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and anticoagulants when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of apixaban and drugs that are both strong inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as carbamazepine. Concomitant administration of apixaban and carbamazepine results in decreased plasma concentrations of apixaban that may be insufficient to achieve the intended therapeutic effect.
Celecoxib: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Cilostazol: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic data suggest that no dose adjustment is necessary if apixaban is coadministered with clarithromycin. However, because clarithromycin is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, there is a potential for increased apixaban exposure and increased risk of bleeding with concurrent use of clarithromycin. Monitor patients closely if coadministration is necessary. When combined with other P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the manufacturer recommends reducing the apixaban dose by 50% and avoiding concomitant administration if patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily.
Clopidogrel: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as cobicistat containing medications. If patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration. Concomitant administration results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking anticoagulants is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking an anticoagulant within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
Dabigatran: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban and dabigatran due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
Dalteparin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban with low molecular weight heparins due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
Darunavir: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when administered with darunavir. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid coadministration. Concomitant administration of apixaban and darunavir may result in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding. Apixaban is a P-gp and CYP3A substrate; darunavir is a P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, administration of another combined P-gp/strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the apixaban AUC by 2-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when administered with darunavir. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid coadministration. Concomitant administration of apixaban and darunavir may result in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding. Apixaban is a P-gp and CYP3A substrate; darunavir is a P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, administration of another combined P-gp/strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the apixaban AUC by 2-fold. (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as cobicistat containing medications. If patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration. Concomitant administration results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when administered with darunavir. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid coadministration. Concomitant administration of apixaban and darunavir may result in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding. Apixaban is a P-gp and CYP3A substrate; darunavir is a P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, administration of another combined P-gp/strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the apixaban AUC by 2-fold. (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as cobicistat containing medications. If patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration. Concomitant administration results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of bleeding if coadministration of dasatinib and anticoagulants is necessary. Dasatinib can cause serious and fatal bleeding. Concomitant anticoagulants may increase the risk of hemorrhage.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like anticoagulants is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue systemic antithrombotic agents (not including use for routine maintenance or reopening of central venous catheters) prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Deoxycholic Acid: (Moderate) Use deoxycholic acid with caution in patients receiving anticoagulants. Excessive bruising or bleeding may occur in and around the treatment area.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Dextran: (Moderate) Because of the potential effects of certain dextran formulations on bleeding time, use with caution in patients on anticoagulants concurrently.
Diclofenac: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Diflunisal: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Dipyridamole: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Donanemab: (Major) Avoid the use of amyloid-beta monoclonal antibody directed therapy in patients that require therapeutic anticoagulation. Anticoagulation may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients that develop other amyloid related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) while on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Edoxaban: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban and edoxaban due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Coadministration of apixaban and eliglustat may increase exposure to apixaban and increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients closely. Apixaban is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; eliglustat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Use caution when discontinuing eltrombopag in patients receiving anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin, enoxaparin, dabigatran, rivaroxaban). The risk of bleeding and recurrent thrombocytopenia is increased in patients receiving these drugs when eltrombopag is discontinued.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as cobicistat containing medications. If patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration. Concomitant administration results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as cobicistat containing medications. If patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration. Concomitant administration results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Enoxaparin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban with low molecular weight heparins due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when administered with ensitrelvir. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid coadministration. Concomitant administration of apixaban and ensitrelvir may result in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding. Apixaban is a P-gp and CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, administration of another combined P-gp/strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the apixaban AUC by 2-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Minor) Monitor for a decrease in apixaban efficacy during concomitant use of apixaban and enzalutamide, especially in patients with additional risk factors for apixaban treatment failure or failure-related harm. Concomitant use may decrease apixaban exposure. Apixaban is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor. The net effect on apixaban concentrations is unknown but concomitant use is predicted to reduce apixaban overall exposure by 31% without affecting apixaban peak.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) When used concurrently with anticoagulants, epoprostenol may increase the risk of bleeding.
Eptifibatide: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Methyltestosterone can increase the effects of anticoagulants through reduction of procoagulant factor. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy should be closely monitored, especially when methyltestosterone treatment is initiated or discontinued.
Etodolac: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Factor X: (Contraindicated) The actions of factor X are likely to be counteracted by direct and indirect factor Xa inhibitors such as apixaban, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, and fondaparinux.
Fenoprofen: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Drug interactions with fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (Dietary Supplements) or fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (FDA-approved) are unclear at this time. However, because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 3-6 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant fish oil therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Fondaparinux: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban and with other anticoagulants due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of apixaban and drugs that are both strong inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as fosamprenavir. Concomitant administration of apixaban and fosamprenavir results in decreased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of stroke.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of apixaban and fosphenytoin. Coadministration results in decreased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of stroke. Apixaban is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; fosphenytoin is a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp/strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced the apixaban AUC by more than 0.5-fold.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Garlic produces clinically significant antiplatelet effects so additive risk of bleeding may occur if anticoagulants are given in combination. Avoid concurrent use of herbs which interact with anticoagulants when possible. If garlic dietary supplements are taken, monitor the INR or other appropriate parameters to attain clinical and anticoagulant endpoints. In regard to warfarin, published data are limited to a random case report; however, the product labeling for warfarin includes garlic as having potential for interaction due to additive pharmacologic activity. A case of spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma, attributed to dysfunctional platelets from excessive garlic use in a patient not receiving concomitant anticoagulation, has been reported.
Gemfibrozil: (Moderate) Use apixaban and gemfibrozil together with caution. CYP2C8 plays a minor role in the metabolism of apixaban, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in an increase in apixaban exposure. A dose reduction of apixaban may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) Additive bleeding may occur if anticoagulants are given in combination with ginger, zingiber officinale. Ginger inhibits thromboxane synthetase (platelet aggregation inducer) and is a prostacyclin agonist. Patients taking ginger and an anticoagulant should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and Direct Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals. It is possible that the use of green tea may increase the risk of bleeding if co-administered with anticoagulants (e.g., enoxaparin, heparin, warfarin, and others), thrombolytic agents, or platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, clopidogrel, cilostazol and others). Caution and careful monitoring of clinical and/or laboratory parameters are warranted if green tea is coadministered with any of these agents. Exogenous administration or occult sources of vitamin K may decrease or reverse the activity of warfarin; stability of the diet can be an important factor in maintaining anticoagulation goals. Occult sources of vitamin K include green tea and green tea dietary supplements. Published data are limited in regard to this interaction. A patient with previous INRs of 3.2 and 3.79 on a dose of 7.5mg daily of warfarin (goal INR 2.5 to 3.5) had an INR of 1.37. One month later, the patient's INR was 1.14. The patient admitted that he had started consuming 0.51 gallon of green tea daily approximately one week prior to the INR of 1.37. The patient denied noncompliance and other changes in diet, medications, or health. The patient discontinued green tea and one week later his INR was 2.55. While the amount of vitamin K in a single cup of brewed green tea may not be high (0.03 mcg/100 g), the actual amount may vary from cup to cup depending on the amount of tea leaves used, the length of time the tea bags are allowed to brew, and the volume of tea consumed. Additionally, if a patient drinks multiple cups of tea per day, the amount of vitamin K could reach significance. It is recommended that patients on warfarin maintain a stable intake of green tea.
Hemin: (Major) Because hemin has exhibited transient, mild anticoagulant effects during clinical studies, concurrent use of anticoagulants should be avoided. The extent and duration of the hypocoagulable state induced by hemin has not been established.
Heparin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban and with heparin due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with coagulation such as anticoagulants; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with anticoagulants is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ibrutinib and anticoagulant agents such as apixaban may increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients for signs of bleeding. Severe bleeding events have occurred with ibrutinib therapy including intracranial hemorrhage, GI bleeding, hematuria, and post procedural hemorrhage; some events were fatal. The mechanism for bleeding with ibrutinib therapy is not well understood.
Ibuprofen: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Icosapent ethyl is an ethyl ester of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Because omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when icosapent ethyl is used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 36 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant icosapent ethyl therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with apixaban, a CYP3A substrate, as apixaban toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with anticoagulants, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Indomethacin: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and anticoagulants due to the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of anticoagulants in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Drug interactions with fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (Dietary Supplements) or fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (FDA-approved) are unclear at this time. However, because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 3-6 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant fish oil therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Itraconazole: (Major) Use of apixaban is not recommended during and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of itraconazole. If itraconazole therapy is necessary in a patient receiving apixaban 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily, reduce the apixaban dose by 50%. Avoid coadministration in patients already receiving apixaban 2.5 mg twice daily. Apixaban is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein substrate; itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant administration of itraconazole and apixaban results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as ketoconazole. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration of apixaban and ketoconazole. Concomitant administration of ketoconazole and apixaban results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Ketoprofen: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ketorolac: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic data suggest that no dose adjustment is necessary if apixaban is coadministered with clarithromycin. However, because clarithromycin is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, there is a potential for increased apixaban exposure and increased risk of bleeding with concurrent use of clarithromycin. Monitor patients closely if coadministration is necessary. When combined with other P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the manufacturer recommends reducing the apixaban dose by 50% and avoiding concomitant administration if patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily.
Lecanemab: (Major) Avoid the use of amyloid-beta monoclonal antibody directed therapy in patients that require therapeutic anticoagulation. Anticoagulation may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients that develop other amyloid related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) while on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as ketoconazole. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration of apixaban and ketoconazole. Concomitant administration of ketoconazole and apixaban results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when administered with lonafarnib. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid coadministration. Concomitant administration of apixaban and lonafarnib may result in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding. Apixaban is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; lonafarnib is a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, administration of another combined P-gp/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the apixaban AUC by 2-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as ritonavir. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration of apixaban and ritonavir. Concomitant administration of ritonavir and apixaban results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Low Molecular Weight Heparins: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban with low molecular weight heparins due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Meloxicam: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Methotrexate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methotrexate and direct oral anticoagulants due to the risk of severe methotrexate-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for adverse reactions. Methotrexate is approximately 50% protein bound; direct oral anticoagulants are highly protein-bound. Coadministration may displace methotrexate from its protein binding sites, increasing methotrexate plasma concentrations.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Methyltestosterone can increase the effects of anticoagulants through reduction of procoagulant factor. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy should be closely monitored, especially when methyltestosterone treatment is initiated or discontinued.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) When mifepristone is used for the termination of pregnancy, concurrent use of anticoagulants is contraindicated due to the risk of serious bleeding.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Miltefosine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering miltefosine with anticoagulants, as use of these drugs together may increase risk for bleeding. Miltefosine, when administered for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis, has been associated with thrombocytopenia; monitor platelet counts in patients receiving treatment for this indication. In addition, monitor closely for increased bleeding if use in combination with an anticoagulant.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Mycophenolate may causes thrombocytopenia and increase the risk for bleeding. Agents which may lead to an increased incidence of bleeding in patients with thrombocytopenia include anticoagulants.
Nabumetone: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Naproxen: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Nelarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as nelfinavir. If patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration of apixaban and nelfinavir. Concomitant administration of nelfinavir and apixaban may result in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Nintedanib is a VEGFR inhibitor and may increase the risk of bleeding. Monitor patients who are taking anticoagulants closely and adjust anticoagulation therapy as necessary. Use nintedanib in patients with known risk of bleeding only if the anticipated benefit outweighs the potential risk.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as ritonavir. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration of apixaban and ritonavir. Concomitant administration of ritonavir and apixaban results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Obinutuzumab: (Moderate) Fatal hemorrhagic events have been reported in patients treated with obinutuzumab; all events occurred during cycle 1. Monitor all patients for thrombocytopenia and bleeding, and consider withholding concomitant medications which may increase bleeding risk (i.e., anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors), especially during the first cycle.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Omacetaxine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of omacetaxine and anticoagulants when the platelet count is less than 50,000 cells/microliter due to an increased risk of bleeding.
Omidubicel: (Moderate) Because of the potential effects of certain dextran formulations on bleeding time, use with caution in patients on anticoagulants concurrently.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Coadministration of oritavancin and apixaban may result in increases or decreases in apixaban exposure and may increase side effects or decrease efficacy of apixaban. Apixaban is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, but is also metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP2C9. Oritavancin weakly induces CYP3A4, while weakly inhibiting CYP2C19 and CYP2C9. If these drugs are administered concurrently, monitor the patient for signs of toxicity or lack of efficacy.
Oxaliplatin: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of monitoring in patients who are receiving concomitant therapy with oxaliplatin and apixaban. Prolonged PT/INR occasionally associated with hemorrhage have been reported in patients who received oxaliplatin in combination with fluorouracil/leucovorin while on anticoagulants.
Oxandrolone: (Moderate) An increased effect of anticoagulants may occur with oxandrolone; the anticoagulant dosage may need adjustment downward with oxandrolone initiation or adjustment upward with oxandrolone discontinuation to maintain the desired clinical effect. Oxandrolone suppresses clotting factors II, V, VII, and X, which results in an increased prothrombin time. An increase in plasminogen-activator activity, and serum concentrations of plasminogen, protein C, and antithrombin III have occurred with several 17-alpha-alkylated androgens. For example, concurrent use of oxandrolone and warfarin may result in unexpectedly large increases in the INR or prothrombin time (PT). A multidose study of oxandrolone (5 or 10 mg PO twice daily) in 15 healthy individuals concurrently treated with warfarin resulted in significant increases in warfarin half-life and AUC; a 5.5-fold decrease in the mean warfarin dosage from 6.13 mg/day to 1.13 mg/day (approximately 80 to 85% dose reduction) was necessary to maintain a target INR of 1.5. According to the manufacturer, if oxandrolone therapy is initiated in a patient already receiving warfarin, the dose of warfarin may need to be decreased significantly to reduce the potential for excessive INR elevations and associated risk of serious bleeding events. The patient should be closely monitored with frequent evaluation of the INR and clinical parameter, and the dosage of warfarin should be adjusted as necessary until a stable target INR is achieved. Careful monitoring of the INR and necessary adjustment of the warfarin dosage are also recommended when the androgen therapy is changed or discontinued.
Oxaprozin: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Pentosan: (Major) Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if apixaban and other anticoagulants are used concomitantly. Discontinue apixaban in patients with active bleeding. Coadministration of apixaban and other anticoagulants may increase the risk of bleeding. Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has one-fifteenth the anticoagulant activity of heparin.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of apixaban and drugs that are both strong inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as phenobarbital. Concomitant administration of apixaban and phenobarbital results in decreased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of stroke.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of apixaban and drugs that are both strong inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as phenobarbital. Concomitant administration of apixaban and phenobarbital results in decreased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of stroke.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of topiramate and anticoagulants, such as apixaban, may increase the risk of bleeding. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials, bleeding was more frequently reported in patients receiving topiramate (4.5%) compared to placebo (2-3%). In those with severe bleeding events, patients were often taking drugs that cause thrombocytopenia or affect platelet function or coagulation.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of apixaban and phenytoin. Coadministration results in decreased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of stroke. Apixaban is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; phenytoin is a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp/strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced the apixaban AUC by more than 0.5-fold.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Moderate) Some penicillins (e.g., piperacillin) can inhibit platelet aggregation, which may increase the risk of bleeding with any anticoagulants. Clinically important bleeding of this type, however, is relatively rare. The concomitant use of warfarin with many classes of antibiotics, including penicillins, may result in an increased INR thereby potentiating the risk for bleeding. Inhibition of vitamin K synthesis due to alterations in the intestinal flora may be a mechanism; however, concurrent infection is also a potential risk factor for elevated INR. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding. Additionally, increased monitoring of the INR, especially during initiation and upon discontinuation of the antibiotic, may be necessary in patients receiving warfarin.
Piroxicam: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Platelet Inhibitors: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Posaconazole: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as posaconazole. If patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration of apixaban and posaconazole. Concomitant administration of posaconazole and apixaban results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of apixaban and drugs that are both strong inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as primidone. Phenobarbital is a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp. Because primidone is metabolized to phenobarbital, drug interactions occurring with phenobarbital must be considered when primidone is administered. Concomitant administration of apixaban and primidone results in decreased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of stroke.
Prothrombin Complex Concentrate, Human: (Contraindicated) The actions of factor X are likely to be counteracted by direct and indirect factor Xa inhibitors such as apixaban, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, and fondaparinux.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thrombolytics and direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs). For acute ischemic stroke, avoid thrombolytics in patients that have received a DOAC within the previous 48 hours and consider delaying the initiation of anticoagulant therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those receiving a DOAC with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of apixaban and drugs that are both strong inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as rifampin. Concomitant administration of apixaban and rifampin results in decreased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of stroke.
Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as ritonavir. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration of apixaban and ritonavir. Concomitant administration of ritonavir and apixaban results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban and rivaroxaban due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
Salicylates: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Salsalate: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Saquinavir: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as saquinavir boosted with ritonavir. If patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration of apixaban and saquinavir plus ritonavir. Concomitant administration of saquinavir plus ritonavir and apixaban results in increased exposure to apixaban which increases the risk of bleeding.
Sarilumab: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in efficacy of apixaban if used with sarilumab. Until more data are available, consider using an anticoagulant without dependence on CYP450 enzymes for metabolism (e.g., heparins, edoxaban). The formation of CYP450 enzymes may be suppressed by increased concentrations of cytokines such as IL-6 during chronic inflammation. It is expected that the activity of CYP450 enzymes could increase to normal concentrations during treatment with an IL-6 antagonist such as sarilumab; these effects on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping sarilumab. In vitro, sarilumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes [including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4]. Apixaban is an in vitro substrate for CYP3A4.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Siltuximab: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in efficacy of apixaban if used with siltuximab. Until more data are available, consider using an anticoagulant without dependence on CYP450 enzymes for metabolism (e.g., heparins, edoxaban). The formation of CYP450 enzymes may be suppressed by increased concentrations of cytokines such as IL-6 during chronic inflammation. It is expected that the activity of CYP450 enzymes could increase to normal concentrations during treatment with an IL-6 antagonist such as siltuximab; these effects on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping siltuximab. In vitro, siltuximab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes [including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4]. Apixaban is a substrate for CYP3A4.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of apixaban and herbal medications that are both strong inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum. Concomitant administration of apixaban and St. John's wort results in decreased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of stroke.
Sulindac: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Tenecteplase: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thrombolytics and direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs). For acute ischemic stroke, avoid thrombolytics in patients that have received a DOAC within the previous 48 hours and consider delaying the initiation of anticoagulant therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those receiving a DOAC with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Thrombin Inhibitors: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban and thrombin inhibitors due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thrombolytics and direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs). For acute ischemic stroke, avoid thrombolytics in patients that have received a DOAC within the previous 48 hours and consider delaying the initiation of anticoagulant therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those receiving a DOAC with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Tirofiban: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Tocilizumab: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in efficacy of apixaban if used with tocilizumab. Until more data are available, consider using an anticoagulant without dependence on CYP450 enzymes for metabolism (e.g., heparins, edoxaban). The formation of CYP450 enzymes may be suppressed by increased concentrations of cytokines such as IL-6 during chronic inflammation. It is expected that the activity of CYP450 enzymes could increase to normal concentrations during treatment with an IL-6 antagonist such as tocilizumab; these effects on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping tocilizumab. In vitro, tocilizumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes [including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4]. Apixaban is a substrate for CYP3A4.
Tolmetin: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of topiramate and anticoagulants, such as apixaban, may increase the risk of bleeding. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials, bleeding was more frequently reported in patients receiving topiramate (4.5%) compared to placebo (2-3%). In those with severe bleeding events, patients were often taking drugs that cause thrombocytopenia or affect platelet function or coagulation.
traZODone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking trazodone concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Serotonergic agents may increase the risk of bleeding when combined with anticoagulants via inhibition of serotonin uptake by platelets; however, the absolute risk is not known. It would be prudent for clinicians to monitor the INR and patient's clinical status closely if trazodone is added to or removed from the regimen of a patient stabilized on anticoagulant therapy.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of treprostinil and anticoagulants. When used concurrently with anticoagulants, treprostinil may increase the risk of bleeding.
Tucatinib: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when administered with tucatinib. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid coadministration. Concomitant administration of apixaban and tucatinib may result in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding. Apixaban is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, administration of another combined P-gp/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the apixaban AUC by 2-fold.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like apixaban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with anticoagulants is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Serotonergic agents may increase the risk of bleeding when combined with anticoagulants via inhibition of serotonin uptake by platelets; however, the absolute risk is not known. In addition, both vilazodone and warfarin are highly protein bound, which may result in displacement of warfarin from protein binding sites and an increased anticoagulant effect. It would be prudent for clinicians to monitor the INR and clinical status of the patient closely if vilazodone is added to or removed from the regimen of a patient stabilized on warfarin.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic data suggest that no dose adjustment is necessary if apixaban is coadministered with clarithromycin. However, because clarithromycin is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, there is a potential for increased apixaban exposure and increased risk of bleeding with concurrent use of clarithromycin. Monitor patients closely if coadministration is necessary. When combined with other P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the manufacturer recommends reducing the apixaban dose by 50% and avoiding concomitant administration if patients are already receiving 2.5 mg twice daily.
Vorapaxar: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Warfarin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban and with other anticoagulants due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary. Additionally, apixaban may increase INR.
Zonisamide: (Minor) Zonisamide is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and apixaban is a substrate of P-gp. There is theoretical potential for zonisamide to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are P-gp substrates. Use caution when starting or stopping zonisamide or changing the zonisamide dosage in patients also receiving drugs which are P-gp substrates.


Adverse Reaction
anemia, bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, GI bleeding, hematemesis, hematoma, hematuria, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, melena, menorrhagia, ocular hemorrhage, petechiae, spinal hematoma, stroke, thrombocytopenia, vaginal bleeding


Bleeding (up to 15%) has been reported during clinical trials of apixaban, and cases of serious, sometimes fatal, bleeding have occurred. Major bleeding, including intracranial bleeding (including hemorrhagic stroke), GI bleeding (including upper GI, lower GI, hematemesis, melena, and rectal bleeding), retroperitoneal bleeding, ocular hemorrhage, and intra-articular bleeding, was reported in up to 2% of patients and clinically relevant nonmajor bleeding occurred in up to 4% of patients overall. In patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, the incidence of major bleeding was 2.1% per 100 patient-years with apixaban compared to 3.1% with warfarin (hazard ratio 0.69; 95% CI 0.6 to 0.8; p less than 0.0001), and 1.4% per year with apixaban compared to 0.9% with aspirin (hazard ratio 1.54; 95% CI 0.96 to 2.45; p = 0.07). Fatal bleeding occurred in fewer than 0.2% of patients. Rare but serious cases of spinal hematoma have also been reported with apixaban, particularly in association with neuraxial anesthesia or spinal puncture; if signs or symptoms of spinal hematoma are suspected, initiate urgent diagnosis and treatment. Other bleeding-related adverse events included epistaxis (4% or less), anemia (3% or less), contusion or hematoma (1% to 2%), hematuria (2% or less), and menorrhagia (1%). Less common events (1% or less) included genital, gingival, pulmonary (hemoptysis), gastrointestinal (hemorrhoidal), ocular hemorrhage (conjunctival or retinal), periorbital, muscle, wound, incision-site, operative, puncture-site, or postprocedural bleeding, as well as thrombocytopenia, ecchymosis, petechiae, and wound secretion. Vaginal bleeding (less than 1%), including abnormal uterine bleeding, has been reported in females of reproductive potential receiving apixaban; some cases required surgical or interventional treatment. In pediatric patients, the overall safety profile of apixaban was similar to that observed in adults and consistent across age groups; no major bleeding events were reported. Reported bleeding events included excessive menstrual bleeding (11%) and epistaxis (16%). Rates of clinically relevant non-major bleeding were comparable between apixaban and standard of care (1.3% vs. 1.4%). Minor bleeding occurred in 35.5% of apixaban-treated patients compared to 28.8% with standard therapy (unfractionated heparin, low-molecular-weight heparin, or vitamin K antagonist). Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss and discontinue apixaban in patients with active pathological bleeding. Although not evaluated in clinical trials, the use of procoagulant reversal agents [e.g., prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), activated prothrombin complex concentrate, or recombinant factor VIIa] may be considered. Monitoring the anticoagulation effect of apixaban using a clotting test (e.g., PT, INR, aPTT) or anti-factor Xa activity is not useful or recommended when PCCs are used. Protamine sulfate and vitamin K are not expected to reverse the anticoagulant effect of apixaban. There is no clinical experience with antifibrinolytic agents (e.g., tranexamic acid, aminocaproic acid), and no experience or scientific rationale for the use of systemic hemostatics such as desmopressin.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, rash


Hypersensitivity reactions, including rash, anaphylactoid reactions, and angioedema (allergic edema), were reported in less than 1% of patients receiving apixaban in clinical trials.


hypotension, syncope


Hypotension, including procedural hypotension, and syncope were reported in less than 1% of patients receiving apixaban in clinical trials.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia


Elevated hepatic enzymes (ALT, AST, GGT), abnormal liver function tests, increased blood alkaline phosphatase, and increased blood bilirubin (hyperbilirubinemia) were reported in less than 1% of patients receiving apixaban in clinical trials.


headache


Headache occurred in 16.4% of pediatric patients receiving apixaban in clinical trials.


vomiting


Vomiting occurred in 13.8% of pediatric patients receiving apixaban during clinical trials.


Description

Apixaban is an oral selective factor Xa inhibitor anticoagulant indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of thromboembolism in several clinical contexts. It is also indicated to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. Similar to rivaroxaban and dabigatran, apixaban has a rapid onset of effect and predictable anticoagulant effects; routine laboratory monitoring is not required.  Apixaban was FDA-approved in 2012.

Mechanism Of Action

Apixaban is a selective inhibitor of Factor Xa and does not require antithrombin III for antithrombotic activity. It inhibits Factor Xa that is both free and bound to clots and also inhibits prothrombinase activity. By inhibiting Factor Xa, apixaban decreases thrombin generation and the development of a thrombus. Although apixaban has no direct effect on platelet aggregation, it indirectly inhibits platelet aggregation induced by thrombin.

Pharmacokinetics

Apixaban is administered orally and is 87% bound to plasma proteins. The volume of distribution is approximately 21 L. Apixaban is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 with CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2J2 having minor roles in metabolism. Unchanged apixaban is the major drug-related component in human plasma; there are no active circulating metabolites. Approximately 25% of an orally administered dose is recovered in the urine and feces as metabolites. Renal excretion accounts for about 27% of total apixaban clearance. Biliary and direct intestinal excretion contribute to fecal elimination. Apixaban has a total clearance of approximately 3.3 L/hour and an elimination half-life of approximately 12 hours.
Pharmacodynamics
During clinical trials of apixaban, a concentration-dependent increase in anti-factor Xa activity was observed across the tested dose range and was similar in healthy subjects and patients with atrial fibrillation. As a result of factor Xa inhibition, apixaban prolongs clotting tests such as prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT); however, these changes are small, variable, and not useful for monitoring anticoagulant effect. The pharmacodynamic effects of apixaban can persist for at least 24 hours after the last dose. Activated oral charcoal reduces absorption and lowers plasma concentrations of apixaban and may be useful in cases of overdose or accidental ingestion. The effects of 4-factor prothrombin complex concentrates (PCCs) on apixaban pharmacodynamics have been studied in healthy subjects. Following a 30-minute PCC infusion, endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) returned to pre-apixaban baseline concentrations within 4 hours compared to 45 hours with placebo. Mean ETP then rose above baseline, reaching a maximum 34% to 51% increase at 21 hours after PCC infusion, and remained elevated 21% to 27% at 69 hours (end of study). The clinical significance of this increase in ETP is unknown.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2J2, P-gp, BCRP
Apixaban is a substrate for CYP3A4 and minor substrate for CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2J2. Apixaban is a substrate for the P-gp and BCRP drug transporters.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The absolute bioavailability of apixaban is about 50% for doses up to 10 mg. Food has no effect on absorption. The Tmax occurs within 3 to 4 hours of oral administration. At doses of 25 mg or more, apixaban displays dissolution-limited absorption with decreased bioavailability. Compared with oral administration of 2 intact 5 mg tablets, apixaban exposure is similar after oral administration of 2 crushed 5 mg tablets suspended in 30 mL of water or an oral solution preparation. Cmax and AUC are 20% and 16% lower, respectively, after administration of 2 crushed 5 mg tablets mixed with 30 g of applesauce compared to 2 intact 5 mg tablets.

Other Route(s)

Nasogastric (NG) Route
The exposure of a crushed apixaban 5 mg tablet suspended in 60 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection and administered via NG tube or apixaban oral solution (0.4 mg/mL) administered via NG tube with water and using 5% Dextrose Injection or infant formula as a flush medium is similar to apixaban administered orally. Exposure was less when the oral solution was administered via NG tube with a nutritional supplement; however, the effect on apixaban AUC was limited (19% lower).

Hepatic Impairment

The pharmacokinetics of apixaban in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment are not significantly different compared to patients with normal hepatic function. Further, no differences were observed in anti-Xa factor activity in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment compared to healthy subjects. However, patients with moderate hepatic impairment may have irregularities in coagulation; the relationship between impairments of the coagulation cascade on efficacy and bleeding in this population is not clear. No data exist for patients with severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

The pharmacokinetics of apixaban (AUC and Cmax) are not significantly different in patients with mild renal impairment compared to those with normal renal function; however, AUC is increased in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment. No differences in anti-factor Xa activity, when adjusted for apixaban exposure, were observed across renal function categories. Hemodialysis does not appear to have a significant effect on apixaban exposure. The dialysis clearance of apixaban is approximately 18 mL/minute, with systemic exposure about 14% lower on dialysis compared to off dialysis. In patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), systemic exposure is 36% higher than in patients with normal renal function when a single 5 mg dose of apixaban is administered immediately after a 4-hour dialysis session. Systemic exposure is 17% higher when the dose is given 2 hours before a 4-hour dialysis session (dialysate flow rate 500 mL/minute; blood flow rate 350 to 500 mL/minute).

Pediatrics

Apixaban is rapidly absorbed in pediatric patients, reaching a Tmax approximately 2 hours after single-dose administration. Apixaban has a total apparent clearance of about 3 L/hour in pediatric patients. Apixaban exposure and anti-factor Xa activity ranges in pediatric patients receiving a weight-based dosing regimen for the treatment of VTE were similar to those seen in adult patients receiving an apixaban dose of 5 mg twice daily. In a pharmacokinetic study in 49 pediatric patients 9 days to 17 years, a single apixaban dose, targeting adult steady-state exposure with apixaban 2.5 mg, was administered using 2 pediatric formulations: 0.1 mg sprinkle capsule (age younger than 28 days) and 0.4 mg/mL solution (age 28 days to 17 years; dose range, 1.08 to 2.19 mg/m2). Apixaban clearance and Vd increased less than proportionally with body weight. Apixaban clearance increased with increasing age, reaching adult values in pediatric patients 12 years and older. In addition to body weight, maturation played a role in the clearance of apixaban, most notably in the youngest pediatric patients (younger than 9 months), who had lower clearance. Similar to adults, plasma anti-factor Xa activity values were linearly related to apixaban concentrations, with no apparent age-related differences.

Geriatric

The AUC, but not Cmax, of apixaban was increased in patients 65 years and older as compared to those patients aged 18 to 40 years.

Gender Differences

Differences in the pharmacokinetics of apixaban based on gender in adults or pediatric patients were not found.

Ethnic Differences

Differences in the pharmacokinetics of apixaban based on race or ethnicity in adults or pediatric patients were not found.

Obesity

The AUC and Cmax of apixaban are increased in patients weighing 50 kg or less as compared to those weighing 65 to 85 kg. In patients weighing 120 kg or more, the Cmax and AUC of apixaban are decreased.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Missed dose: If a dose is missed, advise patients to take as soon as possible on the same day, then resume twice daily dosing. Do not double the dose to make up for a missed dose.
If a child vomits or spits up the dose within 30 minutes after taking the medication, repeat the dose. If a child vomits or spits up more than 30 minutes after the dose, do not repeat the dose. Advise caregivers to contact their care team if the child repeatedly vomits or spits up after apixaban administration.


Oral Solid Formulations

Tablets
May be taken with or without food.
For adult and pediatric patients weighing 35 kg or more who are unable to swallow whole tablets, apixaban tablets may be crushed and suspended in water, 5% Dextrose Injection, or apple juice, or mixed with applesauce for prompt administration; crushed tablets are stable as these mixtures for up to 4 hours.
 
Capsules for Oral Suspension (sprinkle)
Do not swallow capsules for oral suspension; capsules for oral suspension must be mixed with food or liquid.
Sprinkle the contents of the capsule into the medicine cup. Ensure both capsule shells are empty.
Add 5 mL of water or infant formula to the measuring cup. 2.5 mL may be used in children with fluid restrictions. Do not use any other type of liquid.
Mix the medication and liquid until powder particles are no longer visible.
Draw up the mixed medication and liquid into an oral syringe and administer it to the patient.
Add an additional 5 mL to the medicine cup, mix, draw up the medication, and administer it to the patient again to ensure all the medication is given. 2.5 mL may be used in children with fluid restrictions.
Give the medication no later than 2 hours after preparation.
 
Tablets for Oral Suspension
Do not swallow tablet(s); tablets must be mixed with food or liquid prior to administration.
Liquid Preparation
Empty the tablet into the medicine cup and add 5 mL of water, apple juice, or infant formula. 2.5 mL may be used in children with fluid restrictions. Do not use any other type of liquid.
Mix the medication and liquid until tablet(s) are no longer visible; this may take about 5 to 7 minutes.
Draw up the mixed medication and liquid into an oral syringe and administer it to the patient.
Add an additional 5 mL to the medicine cup, mix, draw up the medication, and administer it to the patient again to ensure all the medication is given. 2.5 mL may be used in children with fluid restrictions.
Give the medication no later than 2 hours after preparation.
Food Preparation
Empty the tablet into a bowl containing approximately 15 mL of applesauce.
Mix the applesauce and the tablet(s).
Administer the medication to the patient, ensuring all the medication and food is given.
Give the dose immediately after preparation.


Extemporaneous Compounding-Oral

Extemporaneous compounding instructions for apixaban oral suspension (0.25 mg/mL)†
NOTE: This extemporaneous formulation is not FDA-approved.
Using a mortar and pestle, grind 6 x 5 mg apixaban tablets to a fine powder.
Prepare the suspension vehicle by mixing 60 mL of Ora-Plus with 60 mL purified water (50:50 ratio).
Add 10 mL of the suspension vehicle to the powder and form a smooth paste.
Add geometric amounts of the vehicle and mix well after each addition.
Transfer to a graduated cylinder and add additional vehicle to make a total volume of 120 mL. Mix well.
Place in an amber plastic bottle. Shake well before each use.
Storage: Stable for 7 days when stored at room temperature.


Other Administration Route(s)

Nasogastric (NG) or Gastrostomy Tube (GT) Administration
Tablets may be crushed and suspended in 60 mL of water or 5% Dextrose Injection and promptly delivered through a 12 French NG tube. Following administration, flush with an additional 20 mL.
Tablets for oral suspension may be mixed with 5 mL of water, apple juice, or infant formula as above. After the medication is placed in the NG tube or GT, flush with additional water or infant formula depending on tube size:
5 French: 10 mL
6.5 French: 15 mL
12 French: 25 mL
An extemporaneous 0.25 mg/mL apixaban suspension may also be prepared and administered via the NG route. The extemporaneous suspension was compatible with the 2 most commonly used types of enteral feeding tubes (polyurethane and PVC), with no significant residual volume.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

20 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

20 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

weighing 35 kg or more: 20 mg/day PO.
weighing 25 to 34 kg: 16 mg/day PO.

Children

weighing 35 kg or more: 20 mg/day PO.
weighing 25 to 34 kg: 16 mg/day PO.
weighing 18 to 24 kg: 12 mg/day PO.
weighing 12 to 17 kg: 8 mg/day PO.
weighing 9 to 11 kg: 6 mg/day PO.
weighing 6 to 8 kg: 4 mg/day PO.

Infants

weighing 12 to 17 kg: 8 mg/day PO.
weighing 9 to 11 kg: 6 mg/day PO.
weighing 6 to 8 kg: 4 mg/day PO.
weighing 4 to 5 kg: 2 mg/day PO.
weighing 2.6 to 3 kg: 0.6 mg/day PO.
weighing less than 2.6 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

weighing 4 to 5 kg: 2 mg/day PO.
weighing 2.6 to 3 kg: 0.6 mg/day PO.
weighing less than 2.6 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Apixaban 2.5mg Oral tablet

Apixaban 5mg Oral tablet

Eliquis 0.5mg Dose Tablet for Suspension

Eliquis 1.5mg Dose Tablet for Suspension

Eliquis 2.5mg Tablet

Eliquis 2.5mg Tablet

Eliquis 2.5mg Tablet

Eliquis 2mg Dose Tablet for Suspension

Eliquis 5mg Tablet

ELIQUIS 5mg Tablet

Eliquis 5mg Tablet

Eliquis 5mg Tablet

Eliquis 5mg Tablet 30-Day Starter Pack

Eliquis Sprinkle 0.15mg Capsule for Suspension

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Adults
Mild impairment: No dosage adjustment is needed.
Moderate impairment: There is limited experience with this population; dosing recommendations are not available.
Severe impairment: Not recommended.
 
Pediatrics
Apixaban has not been studied in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Stroke and systemic embolism prophylaxis in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation
Serum creatinine less than 1.5 mg/dL: No dosage adjustment is needed unless the individual is 80 years or older and has a body weight of 60 kg or less.
Serum creatinine 1.5 mg/dL or more with at least 1 of the following, age 80 years or older and/or weight 60 kg or less: 2.5 mg PO twice daily.
 
Treatment, reduction in risk of recurrence, and prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism (VTE), including deep venous thrombosis (DVT), and/or pulmonary embolism
Adults
No dosage adjustment is needed. Clinical efficacy and safety studies with apixaban did not enroll persons with CrCl less than 15 mL/minute.
Pediatrics
Pediatric patients 2 years and older: Apixaban is not recommended in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2.
Pediatric patients younger than 2 years: Apixaban is not recommended in patients with inadequate renal function as defined below based on postnatal age and threshold eGFR (updated Schwartz formula):
Postnatal age 0 to 1 week and eGFR less than 8 mL/minute/1.73 m2.
Postnatal age 2 to 8 weeks and eGFR less than 12 mL/minute/1.73 m2.
Postnatal age greater than 8 weeks to younger than 2 years and eGFR less than 22 mL/minute/1.73 m2.
 
Intermittent Hemodialysis
Stroke and systemic embolism prophylaxis in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation
No dosage adjustment is needed UNLESS the individual has at least 2 of the following criteria: serum creatinine 1.5 mg/dL or more, age 80 years or older, and/or weight 60 kg or less, then reduce dose to 2.5 mg PO twice daily. Clinical efficacy and safety studies with apixaban did not enroll individuals with end stage renal disease (ESRD) on dialysis.
Treatment, reduction in risk of recurrence, and prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism (VTE), including deep venous thrombosis (DVT), and/or pulmonary embolism
No dosage adjustment recommended. Clinical efficacy and safety studies with apixaban did not enroll individuals with ESRD on dialysis.


© 2026 Elsevier