=== Abacavir — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2332)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Abacavir is a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI), approved for use in combination with other antiretroviral medications to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections in adult and pediatric patients aged 3 months and older.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 600 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): pancreatitis, hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity, lactic acidosis, steatosis, erythema multiforme, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, anemia, elevated creatine kinase, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperamylasemia, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anxiety, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, insomnia, malaise, migraine, nightmares, chills, fever, infection

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: HLA-B*5701-positive, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis Abacavir has been associated with serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis (some cases have been fatal); to reduce the risk, perform HLA-B*5701 testing on all patients before initiating treatment. Abacavir is... Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

ABACAVIR

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Ziagen, Ziagen Solution

Indication Specific Dosing

General Dosing Information
Screen patients for the HLA-B*5701 allele before initiating an abacavir-containing regimen to assess the risk of hypersensitivity reaction. HLA-B*5701-positive patients should not be prescribed abacavir.
 
Initiation of therapy for HIV infection
For adults, initiation of treatment immediately (or as soon as possible) after HIV diagnosis is recommended in all patients to reduce the risk of disease progression and to prevent the transmission of HIV, including perinatal transmission and transmission to sexual partners.
Starting antiretroviral therapy early is particularly important for patients with AIDS-defining conditions, those with acute or recent HIV infection, and individuals who are pregnant; delaying therapy in these subpopulations has been associated with high risks of morbidity, mortality, and HIV transmission.
For patients receiving an HIV diagnosis while hospitalized, it is recommended to initiate treatment during hospitalization whenever possible. Further, ensure a sufficient supply of medication (e.g., at least 2 to 4 weeks) is available to cover until the outpatient clinic appointment.
For elite controllers (i.e., patients who maintain viral loads below the level of quantification for years without treatment), antiretroviral therapy is still recommended. If deferred, closely monitor these patients as some may experience CD4 count decline, loss of viral control, or HIV-related complications.
Prior to initiating treatment, obtain baseline plasma HIV RNA (viral load) and CD4 count; results do not need to be available before starting therapy.
Antiretroviral drug-resistance testing:
Genotypic drug-resistance testing is recommended prior to initiation of therapy and prior to changing therapy for treatment failure.
Standard genotypic drug-resistance testing in treatment-naive people should focus on testing for mutations in reverse transcriptase (RT) and protease (PR) genes.
Testing for mutations in the integrase gene should also be performed if integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) resistance is a concern (i.e., prior exposure to INSTI for pre-exposure prophylaxis, post-exposure prophylaxis, or treatment).
For patients who previously received long-acting cabotegravir or cabotegravir; rilpivirine, resistance testing (including INSTI genotypic testing) should be conducted regardless of the time since the last dose as INSTI and NNRTI mutations may emerge months after the last dose.
Phenotypic resistance testing may be used in conjunction with the genotypic test for patients with known or suspected complex drug-resistance mutation patterns.
HIV-1 proviral DNA resistance testing is available for use in patients with HIV RNA concentrations below the limits of detection or with low-level viremia (i.e., less than 1,000 copies/mL), where genotypic testing is unlikely to be successful; however, the clinical utility of this assay has not been fully determined.
It is not necessary to delay treatment until resistance test results are available; however, subsequent modifications to the treatment regimen should be made, if needed, once the test results are available.
Pediatric guidelines are also available.
 
Place in therapy for HIV infection
Abacavir plus lamivudine is an alternative 2-NRTI backbone for HLA-B*5701 negative pregnant patients and patients who are trying to conceive who do not have hepatitis B virus (HBV) coinfection.
For non-pregnant patients, abacavir plus lamivudine is an alternative 2-NRTI backbone for use in certain situations, except in individuals:
who are HLA-B*5701 positive
with HBV coinfection (unless tenofovir alafenamide, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, or entecavir is used concurrently)
For acute HIV infections, consider selecting an alternative regimen unless the results of HLA-B*5701 testing are already known.
May be considered for use in HIV-exposed neonates to reduce perinatal transmission of HIV in situations where zidovudine is unavailable or cannot be used. Initiate treatment as close to birth as possible, preferably within 6 hours; however, must confirm patient is HLA-B*5701 negative before initiating therapy.
Pediatric guidelines are also available.


For the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in combination with other antiretroviral agents

Oral dosage (tablets)
Adults


300 mg PO twice daily or 600 mg PO once daily.


Adolescents


300 mg PO twice daily or 600 mg PO once daily.


Children weighing 25 kg or more


300 mg PO twice daily or 600 mg PO once daily. Data regarding the efficacy of once-daily dosing are limited to patients who transitioned from twice-daily dosing to once-daily dosing after 36 weeks of treatment. Guidelines state that therapy can be initiated with once-daily dosing in those able to take pill formulations. However, if therapy was initiated with twice-daily abacavir solution, twice-daily dosing should be used with consideration to switching to once-daily dosing in clinically stable patients with undetectable viral loads and stable CD4 counts.


Children weighing 20 to 24 kg


150 mg PO once daily in the morning and 300 mg PO once daily in the evening or 450 mg PO once daily. Data regarding the efficacy of once-daily dosing are limited to patients who transitioned from twice-daily dosing to once-daily dosing after 36 weeks of treatment. Guidelines state that therapy can be initiated with once-daily dosing in those able to take pill formulations. However, if therapy was initiated with twice-daily abacavir solution, twice-daily dosing should be used with consideration to switching to once-daily dosing in clinically stable patients with undetectable viral loads and stable CD4 counts.


Children weighing 14 to 19 kg


150 mg PO twice daily or 300 mg PO once daily. Data regarding the efficacy of once-daily dosing are limited to patients who transitioned from twice-daily dosing to once-daily dosing after 36 weeks of treatment. Guidelines state that therapy can be initiated with once-daily dosing in those able to take pill formulations. However, if therapy was initiated with twice-daily abacavir solution, twice-daily dosing should be used with consideration to switching to once-daily dosing in clinically stable patients with undetectable viral loads and stable CD4 counts.


Oral dosage (oral solution)
Adults


300 mg PO twice daily or 600 mg PO once daily.


Adolescents


300 mg PO twice daily or 600 mg PO once daily.


Children 3 to 12 years


8 mg/kg/dose PO twice daily or 16 mg/kg/dose PO once daily (Max: 600 mg/day). Data regarding the efficacy of once-daily dosing are limited to patients who transitioned from twice-daily dosing to once-daily dosing after 36 weeks of treatment.


Infants and Children 3 months to 2 years


8 mg/kg/dose PO twice daily or 16 mg/kg/dose PO once daily. Data regarding the efficacy of once-daily dosing are limited to patients who transitioned from twice-daily dosing to once-daily dosing after 36 weeks of treatment. Guidelines recommend that infants and young children should be initiated with twice-daily dosing of the oral solution. A switch to once-daily dosing may be considered for clinically stable patients with undetectable viral loads and stable CD4 counts.


Infants 1 to 2 months†


4 mg/kg/dose PO twice daily. Dosing recommendations are based on pharmacokinetic modeling and observational data supporting the safety of abacavir in infants younger than 3 months.


Neonates†


2 mg/kg/dose PO twice daily. Dosing recommendations are based on pharmacokinetic modeling and observational data supporting the safety of abacavir in neonates.


For the prevention of perinatal transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)†

Oral dosage
Infants 4 to 6 weeks


4 mg/kg/dose PO twice daily.


Neonates


2 mg/kg/dose PO twice daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

HLA-B*5701-positive, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis


Abacavir has been associated with serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis (some cases have been fatal); to reduce the risk, perform HLA-B*5701 testing on all patients before initiating treatment. Abacavir is contraindicated in any HLA-B*5701-positive patient; clearly record the positive status as an abacavir allergy in the patients' medical record. According to the manufacturer, the estimated incidence of hypersensitivity to abacavir was 8% when HLA-B*5701 screening was not performed; the incidence was 1% when HLA-B*5701-positive patients were excluded. Racial background may help identify those at higher risk for carrying the HLA-B*5701 gene, as in the United States approximately 8% of Caucasian patients, 2.5% of Black patients, and 1% of Asian patients are carriers. Regardless of HLA-B*5701 status, immediately discontinue treatment in patients developing or with suspected signs or symptoms of abacavir hypersensitivity, including those presenting with 2 or more of the following: fever, rash, gastrointestinal (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain), constitutional (generalized malaise, fatigue, achiness), or respiratory (dyspnea, cough, pharyngitis). Other potential signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity include: lethargy, headache, myalgia, edema, localized infiltrates on chest x-ray, arthralgia, paresthesia, lymphadenopathy, conjunctivitis, oral ulceration, elevated liver function tests, creatine phosphokinase, creatinine, and lymphopenia. Permanently discontinue abacavir if the clinical presentation of an acute illness cannot be clearly differentiated from a hypersensitivity reaction. NEVER reinitiate an abacavir containing product in a patient who experiences a hypersensitivity reaction as more severe symptoms will recur within hours of administration and may include life-threatening hypotension and death. Severe or fatal hypersensitivity reactions may also occur within hours after abacavir reintroduction in patients without an identified history of hypersensitivity, but who abruptly discontinued abacavir for reasons unrelated to symptoms of hypersensitivity (e.g., interruption in drug supply or discontinuation while treating other medical conditions). In some cases, symptoms consistent with hypersensitivity may have been present before abacavir was discontinued, but may have been attributed to other medical conditions (e.g., acute onset respiratory diseases, gastroenteritis, or reactions to other medications). In a minority of cases, hypersensitivity reactions occurred days to weeks after abacavir reintroduction. If abacavir has been discontinued for reasons other than symptoms of hypersensitivity and if reinitiation is being considered, re-evaluate the reason for discontinuation and ensure that the patient did not have any suspected symptoms of hypersensitivity. If hypersensitivity symptoms are suspected upon review, do not reinitiate abacavir. If symptoms consistent with hypersensitivity are not identified and the patient is HLA-B*5701-negative, undertake reintroduction with caution. If HLA-B*5701 status is unknown, screening should occur prior to restarting therapy. Health care professionals should report all hypersensitivity reactions to the FDA MedWatch program (800-FDA-1088).


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

coronary artery disease


When prescribing an abacavir-containing regimen, consider the patient's underlying risk of coronary artery disease and take action to minimize all modifiable risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and smoking). HIV guidelines recommend consideration be given to avoiding the use of abacavir-containing regimens in patients with known high cardiovascular risk. Conflicting data have been published regarding the potential for myocardial infarction (MI) in patients receiving treatment with an abacavir-containing regimen. In several prospective, observational, epidemiological studies the use of abacavir was associated with an increased risk of MI. Patients in these studies who started abacavir for the first time had worse initial cardiovascular risk profiles than observed with the other nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) agents; therefore, it cannot be ruled out that some of these results could be the result of channeling bias. The authors of these studies speculate that the underlying mechanism for increased risk of cardiovascular disease may be due to an increased propensity for subclinical atherosclerosis to manifest itself clinically as a consequence of the pro-inflammatory potential of abacavir; however, a biological mechanism to explain the potential increase in risk has not been definitely established. In contrast to the observational trials, a sponsor-conducted, pooled analysis of clinical trials showed no excess risk of MI in abacavir-treated subjects as compared with control subjects. Further, a meta-analysis of 26 randomized clinical trials conducted by the FDA failed to reveal an association between treatment with abacavir-containing regimens and development of MI (OR = 1.02; 95% CI: 0.56 to 1.84).


Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Abacavir is contraindicated for use in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, including those with hepatic failure. A dose reduction of abacavir is required in patients with mild (Child-Pugh class A) hepatic impairment. Use abacavir with caution in those with known risk factors for hepatic disease.


General Information

During baseline evaluation of people with HIV, discuss risk reduction measures and the need for status disclosure to sexual or needle-sharing partners, especially with untreated patients who are still at high risk of HIV transmission. Include the importance of adherence to therapy to achieve and maintain a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL. Maintaining a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL, including any measurable value below this threshold, with antiretroviral therapy prevents sexual transmission of HIV to their partners. Patients may recognize this concept as Undetectable = Untransmittable or U=U. Instruct patients to achieve sustained viral suppression (i.e., 2 recorded measurements of plasma viral loads that are below the limits of detection and taken at least 3 months apart) before attempting to conceive a child in order to maximize their health, prevent HIV sexual transmission, and minimize the risk of HIV transmission to the infant once conception occurs. For partners with different HIV status when the person with HIV is on antiretroviral therapy and has achieved sustained viral suppression, sexual intercourse without a condom allows conception without sexual HIV transmission to the person without HIV; expert consultation is recommended. If the partner with HIV has not been able to achieve viral suppression, has an unknown viral suppression status, or has the potential for inconsistent adherence during the periconception period, the use of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) by the partner without HIV is an option to reduce the risk of sexual HIV acquisition.
 
Testing for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection resistance is recommended in all antiretroviral treatment-naive patients at the time of HIV diagnosis, regardless of whether treatment will be initiated. Additionally, perform resistance testing prior to initiating or changing any HIV treatment regimen. Transmission of drug-resistant HIV strains has been both well documented and associated with suboptimal virologic response to initial antiretroviral therapy. The prevalence of transmitted drug resistance (TDR) in high-income countries ranges from 9% to 14% and varies by country. In most TDR surveys, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) resistance and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) resistance are the most common mutation class types detected, followed by protease inhibitor (PI) and integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) resistance mutations, respectively. Resistance testing at baseline can help optimize treatment and virologic response. In the absence of therapy, resistant viruses may decline over time to less than the detection limit of standard resistance tests but may still increase the risk of treatment failure when therapy is eventually initiated. Thus, if therapy is deferred, resistance testing should still be performed during acute HIV infection with the genotypic resistance test result kept in the patient's medical record until it becomes clinically useful. Additionally, because of the possibility of acquisition of another drug-resistant virus before treatment initiation, repeat resistance testing at the time therapy is initiated would be prudent. Patients with prolonged prior NRTI exposure or who had HIV-1 isolates that contain multiple mutations conferring antimicrobial resistance to other NRTIs had limited response to abacavir. The potential for cross-resistance between abacavir and other NRTIs should be considered when choosing new therapeutic regimens in previously treated patients. Abacavir should not be added as a single agent when antiretroviral regimens are changed due to loss of virologic response.
 
Perform hepatitis A virus (HAV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) screening in any patient who presents with HIV infection to assure appropriate treatment. If the HBV screening is positive, additional testing for hepatitis D virus (HDV) is recommended. Patients with HIV and HBV/HDV coinfection should be referred to an expert in the management of viral hepatitis. Patients with hepatitis B and HIV coinfection should be started on a fully suppressive antiretroviral (ARV) regimen with activity against both viruses (regardless of CD4 counts and HBV DNA concentrations). HIV treatment guidelines recommend these patients receive an ARV regimen that contains a dual NRTI backbone of tenofovir alafenamide or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with either emtricitabine or lamivudine. Both tenofovir products are active against HBV and can be used as HBV monotherapy. Emtricitabine and lamivudine are also active against HBV; however, they are not recommended for use as monotherapy due to the potential for HBV resistance. Therefore, if tenofovir cannot be used, entecavir should be given in combination with a fully suppressive ARV regimen (NOTE: entecavir should not be considered part of the ARV regimen). Avoid HBV treatment regimens that include adefovir or peginterferon alfa, as these regimens are associated with a higher incidence of toxicities and increased rates of HBV treatment failure. In rare cases, peginterferon alfa can remain a treatment option after consultation with an expert. Most patients with coinfection should continue treatment indefinitely with the goal of maximal HIV suppression and prevention of HBV relapse. If treatment must be discontinued, monitor transaminase concentrations every 6 weeks for the first 3 months, and every 3 to 6 months thereafter. Instruct patients to avoid consuming alcohol and offer vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.
 
HIV treatment guidelines recommend all patients presenting with HIV infection undergo routine screening for hepatitis C virus (HCV). For HCV seronegative individuals who are at continued high risk of acquiring hepatitis C, specifically men who have sex with men (MSM) or persons who inject drugs, additional HCV screening is recommended annually or as indicated by clinical presentation (e.g., unexplained ALT elevation), risk activities, or exposure. Similarly, the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines and the CDC preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP) guidelines recommend HCV serologic testing at baseline and every 12 months for MSM, transgender women, and persons who inject drugs. Use an FDA-approved immunoassay licensed for detection of HCV antibodies (anti-HCV); in settings where acute HCV infection is suspected or in persons with known prior infection that cleared spontaneously or after treatment, use of nucleic acid testing for HCV RNA is recommended. If hepatitis C and HIV coinfection is identified, consider treating both viral infections concurrently. It is recommended to use a fully suppressive antiretroviral therapy and an HCV regimen in all patients with coinfection regardless of CD4 count, as lower CD4 counts do not appear to compromise the efficacy of HCV treatment. In most patients, a simplified pangenotypic HCV regimen (i.e., glecaprevir; pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir; velpatasvir) may be an appropriate choice; however, these regimens are NOT recommended for use in persons with HCV and HIV coinfection who: are treatment-experience with HCV relapse (reinfection after successful therapy is not an exclusion); have decompensated cirrhosis; on a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate containing regimen with eGFR less than 60 mL/minute; on efavirenz, etravirine, nevirapine, or boosted protease inhibitor; have untreated chronic hepatitis B; are pregnant. Patients with HCV and HIV coinfection who meet these exclusion criteria should be treated for HCV following standard approaches as described in the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines. Treatment of HCV infection in children younger than 3 years is not usually recommended; however, treatment should be considered for all children 3 years and older with HCV and HIV coinfection who have no contraindications to treatment. Instruct patients with coinfection to avoid consuming alcohol, limit ingestion of potentially hepatotoxic medications, avoid iron supplementation in the absence of documented iron deficiency, and receive vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.
 
Patients with HIV who must undergo a solid organ transplant or allogeneic stem cell transplant should be managed by a multidisciplinary team before, during, and after the transplant to ensure comprehensive care. Prior to the transplant, ensure viral suppression is obtained, and the patient is up-to-date on their vaccinations. Review the patient's antiretroviral history, prior drug resistance results, adherence history, and the potential for drug interactions. Bictegravir- or dolutegravir-based regimens are preferred in most patients needing a transplant. Consider using tenofovir alafenamide over tenofovir disoproxil fumarate due to the lower risk of affecting renal function and bone mineral density. In general, avoid use of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, cobicistat, protease inhibitors) or CYP3A4 inducing non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (efavirenz, nevirapine, etravirine). If a change in the antiretroviral regimen is necessary, the switch should be completed several weeks before the transplant whenever possible. Renal and hepatic function may fluctuate immediately post-transplant; thus, close monitoring is recommended to ensure appropriate dosing and to avoid potential drug toxicities. Additionally, therapeutic drug monitoring of the immunosuppressive medications should be performed to guide dose adjustments. Make every effort to avoid post-transplant interruption of antiretroviral therapy. If an interruption is necessary, stop all components of the regimen simultaneously and restart treatment as soon as possible.

breast-feeding


Provide evidence-based, patient-centered counseling to support shared decision-making regarding infant feeding. Inform individuals that use of replacement feeding (i.e., formula or banked pasteurized donor human milk) eliminates the risk of HIV transmission. It is recommended to use replacement feeding for infants and children of lactating people with HIV who are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) or do not have suppressed viral load during pregnancy and/or at delivery. For those on ART who have achieved and maintained viral suppression during pregnancy (at minimum throughout the third trimester) and postpartum, the transmission risk from breast-feeding is less than 1%, but not zero. Virologically suppressed patients who choose to breast-feed should be supported in this decision. If breast-feeding is chosen, provide counseling about the importance of adherence to therapy and recommend that the infant be exclusively breast-fed for up to 6 months of age, as exclusive breast-feeding has been associated with a lower rate of HIV transmission as compared to mixed feeding (i.e., breast milk and formula). If a viral load is subsequently detected in a breast-feeding person, it is recommended to discontinue or temporarily stop breast-feeding while the viral load is rechecked, causes of viremia are assessed, adherence counseling is reinforced, and the breast-fed infant undergoes HIV nucleic acid testing (NAT). If the repeated viral load is undetectable, a shared decision should be made regarding resumption of breast-feeding. If the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is 200 copies/mL or more, most experts recommend permanent discontinuation of breast-feeding and initiation of a 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. ART(a 1- or 3-drug regimen) for the infant may also be considered if the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is quantifiable but less than 200 copies/mL; consult an expert for guidance. For breast-feeding individuals who receive a new HIV diagnosis while breast-feeding (acute HIV), it is recommended to immediately transition from breast-feeding to replacement feeding, perform an infant HIV NAT, and initiate 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. Promptly identify and treat mastitis, thrush, and cracked or bleeding nipples, as these conditions may increase the risk of HIV transmission through breast-feeding. Breast-fed infants should undergo immediate diagnostic and virologic HIV testing. Testing should continue throughout breast-feeding and up to 6 months after cessation of breast-feeding. For expert consultation, care teams may contact the Perinatal HIV Hotline (888-448-8765). In countries where replacement feeding is unavailable, abacavir has been administered to breast-feeding individuals as part of a regimen to decrease postnatal HIV transmission; the optimal regimen and duration of prophylaxis is undetermined. In 1 study conducted in Botswana, abacavir was found to be excreted in human breast milk; the mean breast milk-to-plasma drug ratio (n = 15) was 0.85. Further, an analysis of 9 breast-feeding infants found detectable plasma drug concentrations in 1 infant. In the Swiss Mother and Child HIV Cohort nested study, abacavir was measurable in 4 breast-fed infants; the relative infant dose was 0.34%. Other antiretroviral medications whose passage into human breast milk have been evaluated include nevirapine, zidovudine, lamivudine, and nelfinavir.


pregnancy


Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. Guidelines recommend the use of abacavir as part of an alternative 2-NRTI backbone in HLA-B*5701 negative patients WITHOUT hepatitis B virus (HBV) coinfection who are pregnant or trying to conceive. Available data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry, which includes 1,532 first trimester exposures, have shown no difference in the risk of overall major birth defects with abacavir compared to the 2.7% background rate among pregnant people in the US. When exposure to abacavir occurred in the first trimester, prevalence of defects was 3.1% (95% CI: 2.3 to 4.1). Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA levels above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. Guidelines recommend the use of abacavir as part of an alternative 2-NRTI backbone in HLA-B*5701 negative patients WITHOUT hepatitis B virus (HBV) coinfection who are pregnant or trying to conceive. Available data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry, which includes 1,532 first trimester exposures, have shown no difference in the risk of overall major birth defects with abacavir compared to the 2.7% background rate among pregnant people in the US. When exposure to abacavir occurred in the first trimester, prevalence of defects was 3.1% (95% CI: 2.3 to 4.1). Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA levels above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.


Interactions

Adefovir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Atidarsagene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Betibeglogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Elivaldogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking abacavir. Abacavir is metabolized via alcohol dehydrogenase. Alcohol decreases the elimination of abacavir causing an increase in overall exposure to abacavir. In a study involving HIV-infected men, coadministration of alcohol and abacavir resulted in a 41% increase in abacavir AUC and a 26% increase in abacavir half-life. In males, abacavir had no effect on the pharmacokinetic properties of alcohol; this interaction has not been studied in females. Abacavir has no effect on the pharmacokinetic properties of alcohol.
Etuvetidigene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV), such as etuvetidigene autotemcel. Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization and continue to hold therapy until at least 7 days after etuvetidigene autotemcel infusion; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may decrease etuvetidigene autotemcel efficacy by reducing LVV activity and interfering with gene therapy manufacturing.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Beta-1a: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Beta-1b: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Gamma-1b: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferons: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Lentivirus vector therapy (selected): (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown.
Lovotibeglogene autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Marnetegragene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Methadone: (Moderate) In a study of 11 adult HIV-infected subjects receiving methadone maintenance therapy (40 to 90 mg/day) and abacavir 600 mg twice daily (twice the current recommended dose), methadone clearance increased by 22% (6% to 42%). While this interaction will not require dosage adjustment in the majority of patients, a small number of patients may require increased doses of methadone. In addition, a significant decrease in abacavir Cmax (34%) and increase in Tmax (67%) were noted, but no changes in overall abacavir clearance or half-life were reported. The clinical significance regarding abacavir therapy is not known.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown.
Orlistat: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Peginterferon beta-1a: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Ribavirin: (Moderate) Use abacavir with ribavirin and interferon with caution and closely monitor for hepatic decompensation and anemia. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh greater than 6). Hepatic decompensation (some fatal) has occurred in HCV/HIV coinfected patients who received both ribavirin/interferon and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) therapies.
Riociguat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in riociguat-related adverse effects like hypotension if concomitant use with abacavir is necessary. Consider a riociguat dose reduction in patients who may not tolerate the hypotensive effect of riociguat. Concomitant use of riociguat and abacavir may increase riociguat exposure although the magnitude of increase is unknown. Riociguat is a CYP1A1 substrate; abacavir may inhibit CYP1A1.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of tipranavir and ritonavir with abacavir results in decreased abacavir concentrations. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, and no recommendations for abacavir dosage adjustments are available.


Adverse Reaction
abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastritis, nausea, pancreatitis, vomiting


In addition to gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms associated with abacavir hypersensitivity, GI adverse events experienced during clinical trials include nausea (7% to 19%), vomiting (2% to 10%), diarrhea (7%, severe 2%), abdominal pain (6%), and gastritis (6%). GI adverse reactions reported during the expanded access program include pancreatitis and increased gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT).


hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity, lactic acidosis, steatosis


Lactic acidosis and severe hepatotoxicity, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs such as abacavir. Typically, these adverse reactions present with symptoms such as enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) and fatty liver (steatosis), even in the absence of significant elevations in liver transaminases. At risk patients may include females and patients who are obese. Prompt discontinuation of treatment is recommended if clinical or laboratory findings suggest lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity.


lipodystrophy


Lipodystrophy, consisting of redistribution or accumulation of body fat, has been reported in patients receiving long-term highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) that includes abacavir.


erythema multiforme, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis


Rash occurred in 5% to 7% of abacavir recipients in clinical trials. Postmarketing reports include suspected cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and erythema multiforme, especially when abacavir is combined with medications linked to SJS or TEN. Due to overlapping symptoms and potential multiple drug sensitivities, abacavir should be discontinued and not restarted in cases of SJS or TEN. The voluntary nature of postmarketing reports prevents establishing frequency or definitive causality.


anemia, elevated creatine kinase, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperamylasemia, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Laboratory abnormalities were reported during clinical trials with abacavir, with rates similar to comparator groups. Grade 3 and 4 laboratory abnormalities reported in adults included elevated creatine kinase (more than 4 times upper limit of normal [ULN]; 7% to 8%), elevated hepatic enzymes (ALT and AST more than 5 times ULN; 6%), neutropenia (ANC less than 750/mm3; 2% to 5%), hypertriglyceridemia (more than 750 mg/dL; 2% to 6%), hyperamylasemia (more than 2 times the ULN; 2% to 4%), hyperglycemia (more than 13.9 mmol/L; less than 1%), thrombocytopenia (platelets less than 50,000/mm3; 1%), leukopenia (WBC 1,500/mm3 or less; less than 1%), and anemia (Hgb 6.9 g/dL or less; less than 1%). Pediatric patients had similar abnormalities, except for a higher incidence of hyperglycemia.


anxiety, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, insomnia, malaise, migraine, nightmares


Neurologic adverse events were reported by abacavir recipients during clinical trials. These events were distinct from neurologic symptoms associated with abacavir hypersensitivity and included abnormal dreams or nightmares (10%), insomnia (10%), headache or migraine (1% to 13%), fatigue (7% to 12%), malaise (7% to 12%), depression (6%), dizziness (6%), and anxiety (5%). In one trial, 5 abacavir-treated patients (1.9%) experienced worsening of pre-existing depression compared with none in the comparator arm; the background rates for pre-existing depression was similar in both treatment arms.


chills, fever, infection


During clinical trials, 4% to 5% of abacavir recipients reported infections, including viral respiratory infections (5%), pneumonia (4%), and ear, nose, and throat infections (5%). Symptoms potentially linked to infections were bronchitis (4%), fever (6% to 9%), and chills (6% to 9%). Notably, fever and chills are also symptoms of abacavir hypersensitivity and should be carefully assessed.


musculoskeletal pain


Musculoskeletal pain and generalized pain were reported in 5% to 6% and less than 1%, respectively, of abacavir recipients during clinical trials.


myocardial infarction


Abacavir treatment was linked with the development of myocardial infarction (MI) in several prospective, observational, epidemiologic trials. In contrast to these trials, a meta-analysis of 26 randomized clinical trials conducted by the FDA failed to reveal an association between treatment with abacavir-containing regimens and development of MI (OR = 1.02; 95% CI: 0.56 to 1.84). In light of the conflicting data, caution is advised when prescribing abacavir to patients with pre-existing coronary heart disease. Health care providers are encouraged to minimize a patient's modifiable risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and smoking) prior to prescribing.


acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), arthralgia, azotemia, conjunctivitis, cough, dyspnea, edema, hepatic failure, hypotension, lethargy, lymphadenopathy, lymphopenia, maculopapular rash, myalgia, oral ulceration, paresthesias, pharyngitis, renal failure, respiratory failure, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, urticaria


Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis to abacavir can be severe, life-threatening, and sometimes fatal. These reactions typically occur within the first six weeks of treatment, with a median onset time of nine days, though they can appear at any time during therapy. Common symptoms include fever, rash, gastrointestinal symptoms (abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting), constitutional symptoms (general malaise, fatigue, achiness), and respiratory symptoms (pharyngitis, dyspnea, cough). Almost all abacavir hypersensitivity reactions include fever and/or rash as part of the syndrome. Other signs and symptoms include lethargy, headache, myalgia, arthralgia, edema, and paresthesias. Physical findings include lymphadenopathy, mucous membrane lesions (conjunctivitis and oral ulceration), and rash. The rash, if present, usually appears as a maculopapular rash or urticarial rash (urticaria) but may be variable in appearance. There have been reports of erythema multiforme. Laboratory findings include elevated liver enzymes, elevated creatine kinase, increased creatinine/BUN (azotemia), lymphopenia, and localized infiltrates on chest x-ray. Anaphylaxis, hepatic failure, renal failure, hypotension, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), respiratory failure, myolysis, and death have occurred in association with these hypersensitivity reactions. Patients carrying the HLA-B*5701 allele are at higher risk, but hypersensitivity can occur in those without the allele as well. Screen all potential drug recipients for the HLA-B*5701 allele. In clinical trials, the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions to abacavir was 8% when HLA-B*5701 screening was not performed; the incidence was 1% when HLA-B*5701-positive patients were excluded. Upon suspicion of a hypersensitivity reaction, abacavir must be immediately discontinued, and the drug must not be restarted under any circumstances due to the risk of more severe symptoms, including death.


autoimmune disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, immune reconstitution syndrome


Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy. During the initial phase of HIV treatment, patients whose immune system responds to abacavir therapy may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), cytomegalovirus (CMV), Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis (TB)), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. In addition, autoimmune disease (including Graves' disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, and polymyositis) may also develop; the time to onset is variable and may occur months after treatment initiation.


Description

Abacavir is a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI), approved for use in combination with other antiretroviral medications to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections in adult and pediatric patients aged 3 months and older. The FDA-approved package labeling contains a Black Box Warning for serious and potentially fatal hypersensitivity reactions to abacavir, particularly in patients with the HLA-B*5701 allele. Ensure all potential drug recipients are screened for the HLA-B*5701 allele prior to starting therapy. If a hypersensitivity reaction develops during treatment, immediately and permanently discontinue use of abacavir; rechallenge is contraindicated. Abacavir also carries risks of lactic acidosis, severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, and a potential but inconclusive link to increased myocardial infarction risk. A dose reduction is recommended for patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A); use is contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B and C). Abacavir was FDA-approved in 1998.

Mechanism Of Action

Abacavir is a nucleoside analog that inhibits HIV reverse transcriptase. Intracellularly, abacavir is converted by cellular enzymes to the active metabolite carbovir triphosphate. Carbovir triphosphate is an analog of deoxyguanosine-5'-triphosphate (dGTP). It inhibits the activity of reverse transcriptase both by competing with the natural substrate dGTP and by its incorporation into viral DNA. Because the incorporated nucleoside analog lacks a 3'-hydroxyl group, it prevents the formation of the 5' to 3' phosphodiester linkage essential for DNA chain elongation, thereby inhibiting viral DNA growth.
 
Pharmacodynamics
In cell cultures, the 50% effective concentration (EC50) of abacavir for HIV-1 ranged from 70 to 5,800 nM and for HIV-2 ranged from 24 to 490 nM.
 
Resistance
A reduced susceptibility to abacavir has been demonstrated in viruses with certain amino acid substitutions, including K65R, L74V, Y115F, and M184V/I. Substitutions M184V or I resulted in a 2-fold decrease in susceptibility to abacavir. Combinations of K65R, L74M, or Y115F with M184V or I conferred up to an 8-fold reduction in abacavir susceptibility. For a greater than 8-fold reduction in susceptibility, combinations of three substitutions were needed. Cross-resistance between abacavir and other nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) has been observed. The above mentioned abacavir resistance-associated substitutions exhibited cross-resistance to didanosine, emtricitabine, lamivudine, and tenofovir. An increasing number of thymidine analogue mutation substitutions (TAMs: M41L, D67N, K70R, L210W, T215Y/F, K219E/R/H/Q/N) are associated with a progressive reduction in abacavir susceptibility.

Pharmacokinetics

Abacavir is administered orally.
Once in the systemic circulation, abacavir has an apparent volume of distribution of 0.86 +/- 0.15 L/kg, suggesting the drug distributes into extravascular space. Protein binding is approximately 50% and is independent of concentration. Based on radiolabeled studies, the drug readily distributes into erythrocytes. In humans, cytochrome P450 enzymes do not significantly metabolize abacavir. The primary routes of elimination are metabolism by alcohol dehydrogenase (to form the 5'-carboxylic acid) and glucuronyl transferase (to form the 5'-glucuronide). The metabolites have no antiviral activity. Elimination of abacavir was quantified in a mass balance study after administration of a 600-mg dose of 14C-abacavir: 83% of the radioactivity was recovered in urine, 1.2% as unchanged drug, 30% as the 5'-carboxylic acid metabolite, 36% as the 5'-glucuronide metabolite, and 15% as unidentified minor metabolites. Fecal elimination accounted for 16% of the dose. In single-dose studies, the observed elimination half-life was 1.54 +/- 0.63 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A1, CYP3A4
Data from in vitro studies show abacavir has the potential to inhibit CYP1A1 and the limited potential to inhibit CYP3A4. Other CYP isoenzymes (e.g., CYP2C9 and CYP2D6) are not inhibited or induced by abacavir. Similarly, abacavir at therapeutic drug exposures is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of substrates of the following drug transporters: organic anion transporter polypeptide (OATP)1B1/3, breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), P-glycoprotein (P-gp), organic cation transporter (OCT)1, OCT2, or multidrug and toxic extrusion protein (MATE)1 and MATE2-K.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

After administration of the oral tablets, abacavir is rapidly and extensively absorbed with a bioavailability of about 83%. Systemic drug exposures were comparable after administration of the solution; therefore, the solution and the tablets may be used interchangeably. There is no significant difference in systemic exposure during fed or fasted states.

Hepatic Impairment

Patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child Pugh score 5 to 6) show a mean increase in abacavir half-life and AUC of 58% and 89%, respectively, after a single oral dose of 600 mg. The AUC of the metabolites are not changed by mild liver disease; however, the rates of formation and elimination of the metabolites are decreased. Abacavir pharmacokinetic parameters have not been assessed in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

The pharmacokinetics of abacavir have not been determined in patients with renal impairment; however, renal excretion of unchanged abacavir is a minor route of elimination.

Pediatrics

Infants 3 months and older, Children, and Adolescents
Pharmacokinetic parameters of abacavir, after single or repeated doses, have been studied in 169 pediatric patients. Pediatric patients receiving the oral solution according to the recommended dosage regimen attained plasma concentrations similar to those seen in adults. Higher plasma concentrations were observed in patients receiving the tablet formulation compared with those receiving the oral solution. Clearance is faster in children and slows down in adolescents and young adults to approximately the clearance noted in adults. Studies in pediatric patients with clinically stable HIV have shown that once-daily dosing provides comparable exposure as twice-daily dosing for both the oral solution and tablet formulations. The mean Cmax was approximately 1.6- to 2.3-fold higher with abacavir once-daily dosing compared with twice-daily dosing.
 
Neonates and Infants 1 to 3 months
Pharmacokinetic data in neonates have shown a substantially higher abacavir exposure (2- to 3-fold higher), likely due to slower drug clearance through immature enzyme pathways, compared to infants and young children. After a single abacavir dose of 8 mg/kg in 10 neonates (0 to 14 days of age), the median AUC0-8 and AUC0-inf were 26.3 (15.5 to 35.7) and 39.1 (22.3 to 50.9) mcg/hour/mL, respectively, with an apparent median clearance value of 3.5 (2.6 to 6.3) mL/minute/kg. The median Tmax and elimination half-life were 2 (1 to 4) and 3.93 (2.47 to 6.35) hours, respectively. Pharmacokinetic modeling has also predicted a slow abacavir clearance of 2.51 mL/minute/kg at birth, which doubles by 4 weeks of age. Simulations predicted that an abacavir dose of 2 mg/kg/dose twice daily in full-term neonates from birth to younger than 4 weeks and an abacavir dose of 4 mg/kg/dose twice daily in infants aged 4 to 12 weeks would achieve target AUC; however, data in low birth weight infants are lacking.

Geriatric

Pharmacokinetic parameters of abacavir have not been studied in elderly patients.

Other

Pregnancy
A population pharmacokinetic analysis of 266 samples from 36 pregnant and 114 non-pregnant females, found the pharmacokinetic parameters of abacavir to be unchanged during pregnancy. Similarly, 1 pharmacokinetic study found abacavir exposure in 25 pregnant women receiving 300 mg twice daily during the third trimester to be comparable to exposures observed in postpartum women and historical controls of non-pregnant patients with HIV. Abacavir crosses the placenta via passive diffusion, with drug concentrations in neonatal plasma cord samples at birth being essentially equal to those in the maternal plasma at the time of delivery.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
NOTE: Screen for the HLA-B*5701 allele before initiating treatment to reduce the risk of a hypersensitivity reaction. HLA-B*5701-positive patients MUST not receive abacavir.
 
NOTE: Interruptions of therapy may be necessary for specific situations.
If an unanticipated short-term treatment interruption (i.e., less than 1 to 2 days) is necessary, it is generally recommended that all antiretroviral agents be discontinued simultaneously, especially if the interruption occurs in a pregnant patient or is because of serious toxicity.
If a short-term treatment interruption is anticipated, as in the case of elective surgery, consider the pharmacokinetic properties and food requirements of the specific antiretroviral medications. Stopping a treatment regimen containing medications with differing half-lives may result in functional monotherapy of the antiretroviral with the longest half-life and may increase the risk for resistant mutations.
Health care providers are advised to restart a complete and effective antiretroviral regimen as soon as possible after a short-term interruption of therapy.
Planned long-term treatment interruptions are not recommended due to the potential for HIV disease progression (i.e., declining CD4 counts, viral rebound, acute viral syndrome), development of minor HIV-associated manifestations or serious non-AIDS complications, development of drug resistance, increased risk of HIV transmission, and increased risk for opportunistic infections.
If therapy must be discontinued, counsel the patient on the potential risks and closely monitor for any clinical or laboratory abnormalities.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.


Oral Administration


Administered with or without food.


Oral Liquid Formulations


The oral solution may turn brown over time.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

600 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

600 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

16 mg/kg/day PO (Max: 600 mg/day).

Children

16 mg/kg/day PO (Max: 600 mg/day).

Infants

3 to 11 months: 16 mg/kg/day PO.
1 to 2 months: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, doses up to 8 mg/kg/day PO have been used off-label.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, doses up to 4 mg/kg/day PO have been used off-label.

Dosage Forms

Abacavir Sulfate 20mg/1mL Oral solution

Abacavir Sulfate 300mg Oral tablet

Abacavir Sulfate 600mg, Lamivudine 300mg Oral tablet

TRIUMEQ 600mg-50mg-300mg Tablet

Triumeq 600mg-50mg-300mg Tablet

Triumeq PD 60mg-5mg-30mg Tablet for Suspension

Ziagen 20mg/ml Solution

Ziagen 300mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustment guidelines available for pediatric patients with hepatic impairment.
In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A, score 5 to 6): Decrease the dose to 200 mg PO twice daily; abacavir oral solution (10 mL PO twice daily) can be used to enable this dose reduction.
Abacavir is contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C, score greater than 6) as safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetic parameters have not yet been established.

Renal Impairment

Dosing in patients with renal impairment has not been studied. Renal excretion of unchanged abacavir is a minor route of elimination in humans.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
It is not known if abacavir is removed by hemodialysis.
 
Peritoneal dialysis
It is not known if abacavir is removed by peritoneal dialysis.

© 2026 Elsevier