=== Desflurane (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1284)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Desflurane is a non-flammable, volatile (below 22.8 degrees C), liquid general halogenated anesthetic.

Routes: inhalation; Common adult doses: Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Dosage must be individualized.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): apnea, bronchial secretions, bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis, hypoxia, laryngospasm, pharyngitis, respiratory arrest, respiratory depression, arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, sinus tachycardia, torsade de pointes, pancreatitis, agitation, asthenia, bleeding, conjunctivitis, dizziness, elevated creatine kinase, erythema, fever, headache

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Desflurane is also contraindicated in individuals with known hypersensitivity to other halogenated anesthetics.

Brand Names
  - Suprane

Dosage Forms
  - Desflurane 100% Inhalation vapour, liquid
  - Suprane 99.9% Liquid for Inhalation
  - Suprane 99.9% Liquid for Inhalation (Amerinet)
  - Suprane 99.9% Liquid for Inhalation (NOVAPLUS)

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General Dosing Information
Increasing concentrations of desflurane produce dose-dependent decreases in blood pressure. Correct excessive hypotension by decreasing the inspired concentration of desflurane. Heart rate is not a good indicator of inadequate anesthesia, as concentrations exceeding 1 minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) may increase heart rate.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Inhalation dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        3% via inhalation with dosage increments of 0.5 to 1% every 2 to 3 breaths; concentrations of 4 to 11% of desflurane with or without nitrous oxide produced surgical anesthesia within 2 to 4 minutes. Concentrations more than 12% have been safely administered during induction; however, these concentrations will proportionally dilute the oxygen concentration. After induction with a drug such as thiopental or propofol, desflurane can be started at approximately 0.5 to 1 minimum alveolar concentration (MAC), whether the carrier gas is oxygen or nitrous oxide.
    Heading
    For general anesthesia induction
    Routes
      Heading
      Inhalation dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2.5 to 8.5% by inhalation with or without nitrous oxide. Minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) values, desflurane in 100% oxygen: Adults age 25 years: 7.3%; Adults age 45 years: 6 +/- 0.3%; Geriatric age 70 years: 5.2 +/- 0.6%. MAC values, desflurane in 60% nitrous oxide and 40% oxygen: Adults age 25 years: 4 +/- 0.3%; Adults age 45 years: 2.8 +/- 0.6%; Geriatric age 70 years: 1.7 +/- 0.4%.
        Heading
        Neonates, Infants, Children, and Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        5.2 to 10% via inhalation, with or without nitrous oxide, following induction with other agents. Desflurane is only recommended for maintenance of anesthesia in pediatric patients who are intubated. It is not approved for maintenance of anesthesia in non-intubated children because of an increased incidence of respiratory adverse reactions such as coughing, laryngospasm, and secretions. Minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) values, desflurane in 100% oxygen: Neonates age 2 weeks: 9.2%; Neonates age 10 weeks: 9.4 +/- 0.4%; Infants age 9 months: 10 +/- 0.7%; Children age 2 to 7 years: 8.1 to 9.1 +/- 0.6%. MAC values, desflurane in 60% nitrous oxide and 40% oxygen:Infants age 9 months: 7.5 +/- 0.8%; Children age 3 years: 6.4 +/- 0.4%.
    Heading
    For general anesthesia maintenance

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Desflurane is also contraindicated in individuals with known hypersensitivity to other halogenated anesthetics.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Desflurane is contraindicated in individuals in whom general anesthesia is contraindicated.
    Headline
    intracranial mass
    General Information
    Desflurane may produce dose-dependent increases in intracranial pressure when administered to individuals with an intracranial mass. If used in such individuals, administer desflurane at a minimal alveolar concentration (MAC) of 0.8 or less, and in combination with a barbiturate induction and hyperventilation until cerebral decompression occurs. Ensure cerebral perfusion pressure is maintained. The use of a lower desflurane dose and the administration of a barbiturate and mannitol would be predicted to lessen the effect of desflurane on cerebrospinal fluid pressure.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of desflurane in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Carefully monitor cardiac rhythm when administering desflurane to individuals who are susceptible to QT prolongation. Additionally, do not administer desflurane as the sole anesthesia inducing agent in individuals with coronary artery disease or individuals where increases in heart rate or blood pressure are undesirable; administer desflurane with other medications in these individuals, preferably intravenous opioids and hypnotics. A rapid increase in desflurane concentration is associated with marked increases in pulse rate, mean arterial pressure, and concentrations of epinephrine and norepinephrine.
    Headline
    neuromuscular disease
    General Information
    Inhaled anesthetics have been associated with rare increases in serum potassium concentrations that have resulted in cardiac arrhythmias and death in pediatric populations during the postoperative period. Individuals with latent or overt neuromuscular disease, particularly Duchenne muscular dystrophy, appear to be most vulnerable. In many, but not all, cases, succinylcholine was administered concurrently.
    Headline
    malignant hyperthermia
    General Information
    Desflurane is contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia. Desflurane can induce malignant hyperthermia in individuals with known or suspected susceptibility based on genetic factors or family history, including those with certain inherited ryanodine receptor (RYR1) or dihydropyridine receptor (CACNA1S) variants. Multiple pathogenic variants of RYR1 and CACNA1S genes have been associated with malignant hyperthermia susceptibility in individuals receiving volatile anesthetic agents, including desflurane. Assess variant pathogenicity based on prior clinical experience, functional studies, prevalence information, or other evidence. Concomitant use of succinylcholine may further increase the risk of malignant hyperthermia.
    Headline
    hepatic disease, history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use
    General Information
    Desflurane is contraindicated in individuals with a history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use, specifically otherwise unexplained moderate to severe hepatic dysfunction after anesthesia with desflurane or other halogenated anesthetics. As with other halogenated anesthetic agents, desflurane may cause sensitivity hepatitis in individuals who have been sensitized by previous exposure to halogenated anesthetics. Cirrhosis, viral hepatitis or other pre-existing hepatic disease may be a reason to select an anesthetic other than a halogenated anesthetic. As with all halogenated anesthetics, approach repeated anesthesia within a short period of time with caution in these individuals.
    Headline
    adolescents, asthma, children, infants, neonates, respiratory infection
    General Information
    Use of desflurane to induce anesthesia in neonates, infants, children, and adolescents is contraindicated due to an increased incidence of moderate to severe upper airway adverse events (e.g., coughing, laryngospasm, secretion production). Desflurane can be used for anesthesia maintenance. If used to maintain anesthesia, tracheal intubation must be in place prior to initiating desflurane. Children, particularly those 6 years and younger, who are maintained with desflurane anesthesia delivered via laryngeal mask airway (LMA) are also at increased risk for adverse respiratory reactions (e.g., coughing, laryngospasm), particularly with the removal of the LMA under deep anesthesia. In addition, pediatric individuals with asthma or a recent upper respiratory infection are at risk for airway narrowing and increased airway resistance; administer desflurane with caution to these individuals. Monitor both young children and those with respiratory conditions closely; if signs and symptoms of respiratory compromise appear, treat accordingly. Emergence from anesthesia in children may elicit a brief state of agitation that may hinder cooperation. Repeated or lengthy use of general anesthetic and sedation drugs during surgeries or procedures in neonates, infants, and children younger than 3 years, including in utero exposure during the third trimester, may have negative effects on brain development. Consider the benefits of appropriate anesthesia in young children against the potential risks, especially for procedures that may last more than 3 hours or if multiple procedures are required during the first 3 years of life. It may be appropriate to delay certain procedures if doing so will not jeopardize the health of the child. No specific anesthetic or sedation drug has been shown to be safer than another. Human studies suggest that a single short exposure to a general anesthetic in young pediatric individuals is unlikely to have negative effects on behavior and learning; however, further research is needed to fully characterize how anesthetic exposure affects brain development.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Avoid use of desflurane in people who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including geriatric age. The minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane decreases with increasing age; adjust the desflurane dose accordingly in geriatric adults. The average MAC for desflurane in a 70-year-old adult is two-thirds the MAC for a 20-year-old adult.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of sevoflurane during human pregnancy. In animal studies, embryo-fetal toxicity (reduced viable fetuses and/or increased post-implantation loss) was observed in rats and rabbits given 1 minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) desflurane for 4 hours a day during organogenesis. Desflurane can produce uterine relaxation. Repeated or lengthy use of general anesthetic and sedation drugs during the third trimester of pregnancy may have negative effects on fetal brain development. Consider the benefits of anesthesia in pregnant patients and the potential risks, especially for procedures that may last more than 3 hours or if multiple procedures are required prior to delivery. It may be appropriate to delay certain procedures. No specific medications for anesthesia or sedation have been shown to be safer than others. Human studies suggest that a single short exposure to a general anesthetic in young pediatric patients is unlikely to have negative effects on behavior and learning; however, further research is needed to fully characterize the effects of anesthetic exposure on brain development. Chronic exposure to inhalational anesthetics, as can occur in operating room personnel, may increase the risk for miscarriage.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Desflurane is compatible with breast-feeding. Although there is no published experience with desflurane in breast-feeding patients, inhalational anesthetics have a short serum-half life and poor oral bioavailability. Clinically significant exposure in the breastfed child is not expected. No waiting period or discarding of milk is required; breast-feeding can be resumed once the patient has sufficiently recovered from general anesthesia.
    Headline
    maternal Venezuelan heritage
    General Information
    Consider alternatives to desflurane, such as intravenous anesthetics or regional anesthesia, when clinically appropriate and available, in individuals with maternal Venezuelan heritage, particularly those known or suspected to carry the rare mitochondrial genetic variant MT-ND4 m.11232T>C. Unexpected catastrophic outcomes, including severe neurologic adverse outcomes and death, have been reported in adults and pediatric individuals of maternal Venezuelan heritage following routine general anesthesia with volatile anesthetics. Although reported cases have involved sevoflurane, this genetic variant raises concerns regarding all volatile anesthetics, including desflurane. Care teams and individuals are encouraged to report adverse events or side effects related to the use of these products to the FDA's MedWatch Safety Information and Adverse Event Reporting Program.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of sevoflurane during human pregnancy. In animal studies, embryo-fetal toxicity (reduced viable fetuses and/or increased post-implantation loss) was observed in rats and rabbits given 1 minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) desflurane for 4 hours a day during organogenesis. Desflurane can produce uterine relaxation. Repeated or lengthy use of general anesthetic and sedation drugs during the third trimester of pregnancy may have negative effects on fetal brain development. Consider the benefits of anesthesia in pregnant patients and the potential risks, especially for procedures that may last more than 3 hours or if multiple procedures are required prior to delivery. It may be appropriate to delay certain procedures. No specific medications for anesthesia or sedation have been shown to be safer than others. Human studies suggest that a single short exposure to a general anesthetic in young pediatric patients is unlikely to have negative effects on behavior and learning; however, further research is needed to fully characterize the effects of anesthetic exposure on brain development. Chronic exposure to inhalational anesthetics, as can occur in operating room personnel, may increase the risk for miscarriage.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Desflurane is compatible with breast-feeding. Although there is no published experience with desflurane in breast-feeding patients, inhalational anesthetics have a short serum-half life and poor oral bioavailability. Clinically significant exposure in the breastfed child is not expected. No waiting period or discarding of milk is required; breast-feeding can be resumed once the patient has sufficiently recovered from general anesthesia.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with alfuzosin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when amisulpride is administered with halogenated anesthetics. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Amitriptyline: (Minor) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). In addition, general anesthetics may produce additive CNS depression when used in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with clarithromycin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Anagrelide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include halogenated anesthetics.
Apomorphine: (Major) Use apomorphine and halogenated anesthetics together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. In addition, concomitant administration of apomorphine and halogenated anesthetics could also result in additive depressant effects.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with arsenic trioxide. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. QT prolongation should be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and complete atrioventricular block have been reported.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be avoided with artemether; lumefantrine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if halogenated anesthetics must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who are concomitantly receiving epinephrine and desflurane for the development of arrhythmias. Halogenated anesthetics, such as desflurane, sensitize the myocardium and may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. If occur, such arrhythmias may respond to beta-blocker administration.
Asenapine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should not be used with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., halogenated anesthetics). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atracurium and desflurane may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration. During maintenance of desflurane anesthesia, the atracurium dose is likely to be reduced compared to that during nitrous oxide/opioid anesthesia. For endotracheal intubation, do not reduce the dose of atracurium. Anesthetic concentrations of desflurane at equilibrium (administered for 15 or more minutes before testing) reduced the ED95 of atracurium by approximately 50% compared to nitrous oxide/opioid anesthesia.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with halogenated anesthetics due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering bedaquiline with halogenated anesthetics. Both bedaquiline and halogenated anesthetics have been reported to prolong the QT interval. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with cholinesterase inhibitors in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Brompheniramine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who are concomitantly receiving epinephrine and desflurane for the development of arrhythmias. Halogenated anesthetics, such as desflurane, sensitize the myocardium and may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. If occur, such arrhythmias may respond to beta-blocker administration.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and additive CNS depressant effects, cautious use and close monitoring are advisable if concurrent use of halogenated anesthetics and buprenorphine is necessary. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Halogenated anesthetics have a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. In addition, during co-administration of buprenorphine with other CNS depressants, hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression. The buprenorphine dose may also need to be lowered when given with drugs that reduce hepatic blood flow, such as halothane, which causes a reduction in hepatic blood flow by about 30%.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and additive CNS depressant effects, cautious use and close monitoring are advisable if concurrent use of halogenated anesthetics and buprenorphine is necessary. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Halogenated anesthetics have a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. In addition, during co-administration of buprenorphine with other CNS depressants, hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression. The buprenorphine dose may also need to be lowered when given with drugs that reduce hepatic blood flow, such as halothane, which causes a reduction in hepatic blood flow by about 30%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with rilpivirine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and halogenated anesthetics. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Carbinoxamine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with halogenated anesthetics if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib causes concentration-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Chlorcyclizine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia. (Minor) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). In addition, general anesthetics may produce additive CNS depression when used in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with halogenated anesthetics due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Halogenated anesthetics are known to prolong the QT interval.
Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia. (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia. (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with chlorpromazine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Phenothiazines have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP). This risk is generally higher at elevated drugs concentrations of phenothiazines. Chlorpromazine is specifically associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP; case reports have included patients receiving therapeutic doses of chlorpromazine. Agents that prolong the QT interval could lead to torsade de pointes when combined with a phenothiazine, and therefore are generally not recommended for combined use. In addition, phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of anesthetics.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Consider administering less frequent or lower cisatracurium maintenance bolus doses for long surgical procedures using desflurane administered with nitrous oxide/oxygen at the 1.25 MAC level for at least 30 minutes. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration. Concomitant use of cisatracurium and desflurane may prolong neuromuscular blockade. No adjustment to the initial cisatracurium maintenance bolus dose should be necessary when cisatracurium is administered shortly after initiation of desflurane.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with clarithromycin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Class IA Antiarrhythmics: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously with class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and class IA antiarrhythmics are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Clemastine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
clomiPRAMINE: (Minor) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). In addition, general anesthetics may produce additive CNS depression when used in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
cloZAPine: (Major) Concomitant use of clozapine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), excessive sedation and respiratory depression, and neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for these adverse effects. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary and monitor for signs and symptoms of NMS and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia. (Moderate) Halogenated anesthetics carry a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Promethazine carries a possible risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with these anesthetics, with proper blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia. (Moderate) Halogenated anesthetics carry a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Promethazine carries a possible risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with these anesthetics, with proper blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with halogenated anesthetics due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Cyproheptadine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Dasatinib: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with dasatinib. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong cardiac ventricular repolarization (prolong QT interval). Cautious dasatinib administration is recommended to patients who have or may develop QT prolongation such as patients taking drugs that lead to QT prolongation.
Degarelix: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents like halogenated anesthetics. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Desipramine: (Minor) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). In addition, general anesthetics may produce additive CNS depression when used in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) The risk of QT prolongation may be increased with coadministration of deutetrabenazine and halogenated anesthetics. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. In addition, consider a dosage reduction for dexmedetomidine or the anesthetic during concomitant use due to the risk of additive CNS effects.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Avoid the use of methylphenidate or its derivatives in patients being treated with halogenated anesthetics (e.g., enflurane, halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) on the day of surgery. The use of Metadate CD is contraindicated on the day of surgery. Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the cardiovascular system to the effects of methylphenidate increasing the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously with class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and class IA antiarrhythmics are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and desflurane together with caution. Metabolic acidosis is associated with the use of dichlorphenamide and has been reported with the postmarketing use of desflurane. Concurrent use may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Disopyramide: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously with class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and class IA antiarrhythmics are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and halogenated anesthetics is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with rilpivirine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval.
Donepezil: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil include halogenated anesthetics. In addition, Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor, like donepezil. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with donepezil in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil include halogenated anesthetics. In addition, Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor, like donepezil. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with donepezil in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Doxapram: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics sensitize the myocardium to sympathomimetics, like doxapram. Delay doxapram administration until the halogenated anesthetic is excreted to lessen risk for arrhythmias, including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation.
Doxepin: (Minor) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). In addition, general anesthetics may produce additive CNS depression when used in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Doxylamine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of halogenated anesthetics and dronedarone is contraindicated. Halogenated anesthetics prolong the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with droperidol. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving other agents that may prolong the QT interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). In December 2001, the FDA issued a black box warning regarding the use of droperidol and its association with QT prolongation and potential for cardiac arrhythmias based on post-marketing surveillance data. According to the revised 2001 labeling for droperidol, any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol.
Efavirenz: (Major) Although data are limited, coadministration of efavirenz and halogenated anesthetics may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both drugs can prolong the QT interval.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Although data are limited, coadministration of efavirenz and halogenated anesthetics may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both drugs can prolong the QT interval.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Although data are limited, coadministration of efavirenz and halogenated anesthetics may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both drugs can prolong the QT interval.
Eliglustat: (Major) Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with eliglustat include halogenated anesthetics.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with rilpivirine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with rilpivirine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and halogenated anesthetics due to QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Encorafenib is associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with halogenated anesthetics due to the risk of QT prolongation. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who are concomitantly receiving epinephrine and desflurane for the development of arrhythmias. Halogenated anesthetics, such as desflurane, sensitize the myocardium and may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. If occur, such arrhythmias may respond to beta-blocker administration.
eriBULin: (Major) Eribulin and halogenated anesthetics have been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin must be coadministered with a halogenated anesthetic, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of erythromycin and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of escitalopram and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Fingolimod: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with fingolimod. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. After the first fingolimod dose, overnight monitoring with continuous ECG in a medical facility is advised for patients taking QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsades de pointes (TdP). Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with flecainide. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsades de pointes (TdP); flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs which have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias.
Fluconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fluconazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with fluphenazine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and fluphenazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. In addition, phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of general anesthetics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of fluvoxamine and halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Reports of QT prolongation, associated with TdP (in exceptional cases, fatal), have been received. QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Use halogenated anesthetics and fostemsavir together with caution. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Galantamine: (Moderate) Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with cholinesterase inhibitors in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with gemifloxacin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5-10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and halogenated anesthetics together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and halogenated anesthetics is necessary. Both gilteritinib and halogenated anesthetics have been associated with QT prolongation; coadministration has the potential for additive effects.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with halogenated anesthetics due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Goserelin: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving halogenated anesthetics. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with granisetron. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, use of granisetron in patients concurrently treated with drugs known to prolong the QT interval and/or are arrhythmogenic, may result in clinical consequences.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Haloperidol: (Major) QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of haloperidol, caution is advisable when prescribing the drug concurrently with medications known to prolong the QT interval. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with haloperidol include halogenated anesthetics.
Histrelin: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving halogenated anesthetics. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Caution is recommended if hydroxyzine is administered with halogenated anesthetics due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). In addition, because hydroxyzine causes pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including halogenated anesthetics. Postmarketing data indicate that hydroxyzine causes QT prolongation and TdP. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Ibutilide: (Major) Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and should be used cautiously with ibutilide.
Iloperidone: (Major) Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; however, torsade de pointes (TdP) has not been reported. According to the manufacturer, since iloperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with halogenated anesthetics which canalso prolong the QT interval.
Imipramine: (Minor) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). In addition, general anesthetics may produce additive CNS depression when used in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with halogenated anesthetics due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor the ECG and electrolytes. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) should not undergo elective surgery, including dental procedures, that require the use of general anesthetics due to the potential for CNS depression and cardiovascular reactions. Additive hypotensive effects are possible with the combined use of MAOIs and spinal anesthetics. MAOIs should be discontinued for at least 10 days prior to elective surgery.
Isoproterenol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of isoproterenol and halogenated anesthetics due to potential to sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetic amines.
Itraconazole: (Major) Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with itraconazole include halogenated anesthetics.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with clarithromycin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Lapatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes if coadministration of lapatinib with halogenated anesthetics is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to treatment. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Lapatinib has also been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with halogenated anesthetics as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with halogenated anesthetics due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Leuprolide: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving halogenated anesthetics. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who are concomitantly receiving epinephrine and desflurane for the development of arrhythmias. Halogenated anesthetics, such as desflurane, sensitize the myocardium and may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. If occur, such arrhythmias may respond to beta-blocker administration.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of lithium and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor ECG if lofexidine is coadministered with halogenated anesthetics due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Additionally, monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration as lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants.
Loperamide: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP, like halogenated anesthetics, should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with loperamide.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP, like halogenated anesthetics, should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with loperamide.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with halogenated anesthetics due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir and halogenated anesthetics can both prolong the QT interval.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Meclizine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Mefloquine: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with mefloquine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. However, due to the lack of clinical data, mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Methadone: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy if concomitant use with halogenated anesthetics is necessary. Halogenated anesthetics are associated with uterine muscle relaxation which may interfere with the effects of methylergonovine.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Major) Avoid the use of methylphenidate or its derivatives in patients being treated with halogenated anesthetics (e.g., enflurane, halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) on the day of surgery. The use of Metadate CD is contraindicated on the day of surgery. Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the cardiovascular system to the effects of methylphenidate increasing the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery.
Methylphenidate: (Major) Avoid the use of methylphenidate or its derivatives in patients being treated with halogenated anesthetics (e.g., enflurane, halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) on the day of surgery. The use of Metadate CD is contraindicated on the day of surgery. Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the cardiovascular system to the effects of methylphenidate increasing the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Midostaurin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and halogenated anesthetics may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of mifepristone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of halogenated and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) should not undergo elective surgery, including dental procedures, that require the use of general anesthetics due to the potential for CNS depression and cardiovascular reactions. Additive hypotensive effects are possible with the combined use of MAOIs and spinal anesthetics. MAOIs should be discontinued for at least 10 days prior to elective surgery.
Morphine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) According to the manufacturer, moxifloxacin should be avoided in patients taking drugs that can result in prolongation of the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with administration of moxifloxacin. Post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including torsade de pointes (TdP), usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Neostigmine: (Moderate) Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with cholinesterase inhibitors in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with cholinesterase inhibitors in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and halogenated anesthetics; significant prolongation of the QT interval may occur. Sudden death and QT prolongation have been reported in patients who received nilotinib therapy. Additionally, fatal cases of torsade de pointes have been reported with halogenated anesthetic use.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Monitor cardiac rhythm in patients receiving norepinephrine with halogenated anesthetics. Concomitant use of may lead to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.
Nortriptyline: (Minor) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). In addition, general anesthetics may produce additive CNS depression when used in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with olanzapine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Therefore, caution is advised when administering olanzapine with drugs having an established causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with olanzapine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Therefore, caution is advised when administering olanzapine with drugs having an established causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with olanzapine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Therefore, caution is advised when administering olanzapine with drugs having an established causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with halogenated anesthetics. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of halogenated anesthetics with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor electrolytes and ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of halogenated anesthetics with oxaliplatin is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval; QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking halogenated anesthetics due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as halogenated anesthetics. However, if coadministration is necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential.
Panobinostat: (Major) QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with panobinostat include halogenated anesthetics.
Pasireotide: (Major) Cautious use of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics, is needed, as coadministration may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of pazopanib and other drugs that prolong the QT interval is not advised; pazopanib has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If pazopanib and the other drug must be continued, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be avoided with pazopanib include halogenated anesthetics.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with perphenazine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Perphenazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. In addition, Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of halogenated anesthetics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with perphenazine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Perphenazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. In addition, Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of halogenated anesthetics. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects. (Minor) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). In addition, general anesthetics may produce additive CNS depression when used in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) should not undergo elective surgery, including dental procedures, that require the use of general anesthetics due to the potential for CNS depression and cardiovascular reactions. Additive hypotensive effects are possible with the combined use of MAOIs and spinal anesthetics. MAOIs should be discontinued for at least 10 days prior to elective surgery.
Phentermine: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of the sympathomimetics. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phentermine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of the sympathomimetics. Because of this, and its effects on blood pressure, phentermine should be discontinued several days prior to surgery.
PHYSostigmine: (Moderate) Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with cholinesterase inhibitors in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Patients should discuss their medication regimen with their surgeon or anesthesiologist prior to any surgical or other procedures with these anesthetics.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with halogenated anesthetics as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking halogenated anesthetics due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Posaconazole: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with posaconazole. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who are concomitantly receiving epinephrine and desflurane for the development of arrhythmias. Halogenated anesthetics, such as desflurane, sensitize the myocardium and may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. If occur, such arrhythmias may respond to beta-blocker administration.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Procainamide: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously with class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and class IA antiarrhythmics are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with prochlorperazine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Phenothiazines have been reported to prolong the QT interval. Concurrent use of drugs that are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) with prochlorperazine should be approached with caution. If coadministration is considered necessary, and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmia, then close monitoring is essential. In addition, additive CNS effects (e.g., oversedation, respiratory depression, and hypotension) may occur if prochlorperazine is administered concomitantly with halogenated anesthetics.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Halogenated anesthetics carry a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Promethazine carries a possible risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with these anesthetics, with proper blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Halogenated anesthetics carry a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Promethazine carries a possible risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with these anesthetics, with proper blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Halogenated anesthetics carry a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Promethazine carries a possible risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with these anesthetics, with proper blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Protriptyline: (Minor) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). In addition, general anesthetics may produce additive CNS depression when used in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
pyRIDostigmine: (Moderate) Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with cholinesterase inhibitors in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously with class IA antiarrhythmics (disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and class IA antiarrhythmics are associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
quiNINE: (Major) Quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concurrent use of quinine with other drugs that may cause QT prolongation and TdP including halogenated anesthetics.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with ranolazine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. The mean increase in QTc is about 6 milliseconds, measured at the peak time of the maximum dosage (1000 mg PO twice daily). However, in 5% of the population studied, increases in the QTc of at least 15 milliseconds have been reported. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Relugolix: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents such as halogenated anesthetics. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents such as halogenated anesthetics. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with rilpivirine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval.
risperiDONE: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with risperidone. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes; however, data are currently lacking to establish causality in association with torsades de pointes (TdP). Reports of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes during risperidone therapy are noted by the manufacturer, primarily in the overdosage setting. Since risperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be used cautiously with other agents also known to have this effect, taking into account the patient's underlying disease state(s) and additional potential risk factors.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with cholinesterase inhibitors in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of rocuronium and desflurane may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration. During maintenance of desflurane anesthesia, the rocuronium dose is likely to be reduced compared to that during nitrous oxide/opioid anesthesia. For endotracheal intubation, do not reduce the dose of rocuronium.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin must be coadministered with a halogenated anesthetic, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Saquinavir: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with saquinavir. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes (TdP). Avoid administering saquinavir boosted with ritonavir concurrently with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Although CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics, patients also receiving selegiline should be closely monitored for additive effects that may prolong recovery after administration of general anesthetics.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of selpercatinib with halogenated anesthetics is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Avoid the use of methylphenidate or its derivatives in patients being treated with halogenated anesthetics (e.g., enflurane, halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) on the day of surgery. The use of Metadate CD is contraindicated on the day of surgery. Halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the cardiovascular system to the effects of methylphenidate increasing the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving halogenated anesthetics due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Solifenacin: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with solifenacin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsades de pointes (TdP) has been reported with post-marketing use, although causality was not determined. This should be taken into consideration when prescribing solifenacin to patients taking other drugs that are associated with QT prolongation.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with halogenated anesthetics due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Sorafenib is associated with QTc prolongation. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Sotalol: (Major) General anesthetics can potentiate the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers and can produce prolonged hypotension. Severe, protracted hypotension and difficulty in restarting the heart have been reported after surgery on patients receiving beta-blockers. In addition, sotalol administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Proarrhythmic events should be anticipated after initiation of therapy and after each upward dosage adjustment. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as halogenated anesthetics, should be used cautiously with sotalol.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and desflurane. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Additional monitoring or a dosage reduction may be required for some patients during concomitant use of succinylcholine and desflurane. Concomitant use may prolong neuromuscular blockade and increase the risk for hyperkalemia and malignant hyperthermia. Anesthetic concentrations of desflurane at equilibrium (administered for 15 or more minutes before testing) reduced the effective dose (ED95) of succinylcholine by approximately 30% compared to nitrous oxide/opioid anesthesia.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
SUNItinib: (Major) Monitor patients for QT prolongation if coadministration of halogenated anesthetics with sunitinib is necessary. Sunitinib can cause dose-dependent QT prolongation, which may increase the risk for ventricular arrhythmias, including torsades de points (TdP). Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with tacrolimus. Halogenated anesthetics and tacrolimus can prolong the QT interval.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Telavancin: (Major) Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, telavancin should be used with caution when prescribing other agents also known to prolong the QT interval (e.g., halogenated anesthetics).
Temazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval. The manufacturer recommends avoiding concurrent use of tetrabenazine with other drugs known to prolong QTc including halogenated anesthetics.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is considered contraindicated for use along with agents that, when combined with a phenothiazine, may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of TdP, and/or cause orthostatic hypotension, such as halogenated anesthetics.
Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with desflurane may result in exaggerated cardiovascular effects (e.g., hypotension and negative inotropic effects). Beta-blockers may be continued during general anesthesia as long as the patient is monitored for cardiac depressant and hypotensive effects. Withdrawal of a beta-blocker perioperatively may be detrimental to the patient's clinical status and is not recommended. Caution is advised if these drugs are administered together.
Tolterodine: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with tolterodine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. This should be taken into consideration when prescribing tolterodine to patients taking other drugs that are associated with QT prolongation.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of halogenated anesthetics with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
traMADol: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use with opiate agonists can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) should not undergo elective surgery, including dental procedures, that require the use of general anesthetics due to the potential for CNS depression and cardiovascular reactions. Additive hypotensive effects are possible with the combined use of MAOIs and spinal anesthetics. MAOIs should be discontinued for at least 10 days prior to elective surgery.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Minor) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). In addition, general anesthetics may produce additive CNS depression when used in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with trifluoperazine. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Trifluoperazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. In addition, phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of halogenated anesthetics.
Trimipramine: (Minor) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with halogenated anesthetics. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). In addition, general anesthetics may produce additive CNS depression when used in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants.
Triprolidine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Triptorelin: (Major) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving halogenated anesthetics. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vecuronium and desflurane may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration. During maintenance of desflurane anesthesia, the vecuronium dose is likely to be reduced compared to that during nitrous oxide/opioid anesthesia. For endotracheal intubation, do not reduce the dose of vecuronium.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. If vemurafenib and another drug that is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with vemurafenib include halogenated anesthetics.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Major) Use caution if halogenated anesthetics are coadministered with voclosporin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with clarithromycin. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval and clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Voriconazole: (Major) Halogenated anesthetics should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with voriconazole. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. Voriconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsades de pointes.
Vorinostat: (Major) Vorinostat and halogenated anesthetics are associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously in combination.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    apnea, bronchial secretions, bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis, hypoxia, laryngospasm, pharyngitis, respiratory arrest, respiratory depression
    General Information
    Respiratory adverse events observed in adults receiving desflurane for induction of anesthesia include cough (34%), breath-holding (30%), apnea (15%), increased bronchial secretions (3—10%), laryngospasm (3—10%), pharyngitis (3—10%), and oxyhemoglobin desaturation (SpO2 1%), apnea (3—10%), laryngospasm (3—10%), and pharyngitis (> 1%). Less commonly (< 1%) observed respiratory adverse events include asthma/bronchospasm, dyspnea, and hypoxia. Cases of respiratory arrest, respiratory failure, and hemoptysis have also been reported during post-marketing use of the drug. Excessive respiratory depression may be related to the depth of anesthesia and may be corrected by decreasing the inspired concentration of desflurane.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      apnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bronchial secretions
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      laryngospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hemoptysis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory arrest
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, sinus tachycardia, torsade de pointes
    General Information
    Cardiovascular adverse events observed in > 1% of drug recipients include bradycardia, hypertension, nodal arrhythmia, and sinus tachycardia. Less commonly (< 1%) observed cardiovascular adverse events include arrhythmia exacerbation, electrocardiogram abnormalities, bigeminy, myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and vasodilation. Cases of cardiac arrest, atrial fibrillation, torsade de pointes, ventricular failure and hypokinesia, hypotension, and shock have also been reported during post-marketing use of the drug. Increasing concentrations of desflurane during anesthesia maintenance produce dose-dependent decreases in blood pressure; reduction of the inspired concentration of desflurane may resolve hypotension. Concentrations of desflurane exceeding 1 minimum alveloar concentration (MAC) may increase the heart rate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      torsade de pointes
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    abdominal pain, nausea, pancreatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse events associated with the use of desflurane for maintenance of anesthesia in adults and pediatric patients include nausea (27%) and vomiting (16%). Cases of acute pancreatitis and abdominal pain have also been reported during post-marketing use of the drug.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    agitation, asthenia, bleeding, conjunctivitis, dizziness, elevated creatine kinase, erythema, fever, headache, hyperglycemia, hypersalivation, leukocytosis, malaise, myalgia, pruritus, rhabdomyolysis, seizures, urticaria
    General Information
    Unexpected catastrophic outcomes, including severe neurologic adverse outcomes and death, have been reported in adults and pediatric individuals of maternal Venezuelan ancestry following routine general anesthesia with volatile anesthetics. Although reported cases have involved sevoflurane, this genetic variant raises concerns regarding all volatile anesthetics. Consider alternatives to desflurane, such as intravenous anesthetics or regional anesthesia, when clinically appropriate and available, in individuals with maternal Venezuelan heritage, particularly those known or suspected to carry the rare mitochondrial genetic variant MT-ND4 m.11232T>C. Other adverse events observed in greater than 1% of drug recipients include headache, hypersalivation, and conjunctivitis. Less commonly (less than 1%) observed adverse events include agitation, dizziness, fever, hemorrhage/bleeding, pruritus, myalgia, and elevated creatine kinase. Cases of convulsion or seizures, ocular icterus, urticaria, erythema, rhabdomyolysis, asthenia, and malaise have also been reported during post-marketing use of the drug. Similar to other anesthetic agents, transient hyperglycemia or leukocytosis may occur with desflurane.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      leukocytosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, metabolic acidosis, myoglobinuria
    General Information
    Use of inhaled anesthetic agents has been associated with rare increases in serum potassium concentrations that have resulted in cardiac arrhythmias and death in pediatric populations during the postoperative period. These individuals also experienced significant elevations in serum creatinine kinase concentrations and, in some cases, changes in urine consistent with myoglobinuria. Concomitant use of succinylcholine has been associated with most, but not all, of these cases. Despite the similarity in presentation to malignant hyperthermia, none of these individuals exhibited signs or symptoms of muscle rigidity or hypermetabolic state. Early and aggressive intervention to treat hyperkalemia and resistant arrhythmias is recommended, as is subsequent evaluation for latent neuromuscular disease. Other metabolic adverse events reported with desflurane in postmarketing include hypokalemia and metabolic acidosis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myoglobinuria
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      metabolic acidosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    malignant hyperthermia
    General Information
    Malignant hyperthermia can be precipitated by many drugs used in anesthetic practice, including halogenated anesthetics. Fatal malignant hyperthermia has been reported with halogenated anesthetics. The risk of developing malignant hyperthermia after desflurane administration increases with the concomitant administration of succinylcholine. Signs consistent with malignant hyperthermia may include hyperthermia, hypoxia, hypercapnia, muscle rigidity (e.g., jaw muscle spasm), tachycardia (e.g., particularly that unresponsive to deepening anesthesia or analgesic medication administration), tachypnea, cyanosis, arrhythmias, hypovolemia, and hemodynamic instability. Skin mottling, coagulopathies, and renal failure are clinical signs that may occur later in the course of the hypermetabolic process. Successful treatment of malignant hyperthermia depends on early recognition of clinical signs. If malignant hyperthermia is suspected, discontinue all triggering agents (e.g., volatile anesthetics and succinylcholine), administer intravenous dantrolene sodium, and initiate supportive therapies. Supportive therapies include administration of supplemental oxygen and respiratory support based on clinical need, maintenance of hemodynamic stability and adequate urine output, management of fluid and electrolyte balance, correction of acid-base imbalance, and institution of measures to control rising temperature.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      malignant hyperthermia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice
    General Information
    Hepatitis may occur in desflurane recipients who have been sensitized by previous exposure to halogenated anesthetics. Caution is advised when administering repeated anesthesia within a short period of time. Other hepatobiliary disorders reported during post-marketing use of the drug include hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, cytolytic hepatitis, cholestasis, jaundice, hyperbilirubinemia, and elevated hepatic enzymes.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholestasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    carboxyhemoglobinemia
    General Information
    As with other inhalational anesthetics, desflurane has been observed to react with desiccated carbon dioxide (CO2) absorbents in anesthetic circle systems to form carbon monoxide and subsequently cause carboxyhemoglobinemia. Replace the CO2 absorbent if desiccation is suspected.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      carboxyhemoglobinemia
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Desflurane is a non-flammable, volatile (below 22.8 degrees C), liquid general halogenated anesthetic. It is used in adults for induction and/or maintenance of anesthesia during surgery. Desflurane is not recommended for induction of anesthesia in pediatric patients because of the high incidence of cough, laryngospasm, apnea, secretion production, and oxyhemoglobin desaturation; however, the drug may be administered to this population for maintenance of anesthesia if other agents are used for induction and tracheal intubation is in place. Desflurane is administered by inhalation via a vaporizer; administration must be performed by healthcare professionals with training in general anesthesia. The dose must be individualized according to surgical requirements, patient variables (age, physical condition, etc.), and use of adjunctive agents such as nitrous oxide, benzodiazepines, and opioids. During clinical trials, efficacy of desflurane was evaluated in 1843 patients, including ambulatory (n = 1061), cardiovascular (n = 277), neurosurgical (n = 40), geriatric (n = 103; ages 57—91 years), and pediatric (n = 235; ages 2—16 years) patients. Desflurane was approved by the FDA in 1992.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The exact mechanism of action of inhalational anesthetics is not known. There appears to be a correlation between anesthetic potency and lipid solubility (Meyer-Overton theory), suggesting that inhalation anesthetics likely affect the lipid matrix of nerve cell membranes in the brain. Furthermore, NMR and electron spin resonance studies indicate that anesthetics cause a local disordering of the lipid membrane matrix, possibly decreasing the number of molecules that alternate simultaneously between gel and crystalline states, and thereby altering membrane function.

Pharmacokinetics
  Text
  Desflurane is administered by inhalation. Desflurane undergoes minimal biotransformation by the liver in humans. Less than 0.02% of the desflurane absorbed may be recovered as urinary metabolites.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Inhalation Administration
    Description
    Desflurane is solely for inhalation administration and should only be given by individuals trained in the administration of general anesthetics by use of a vaporizer specifically designed and designated for use with desflurane.
No specific premedication is recommended. The decision to premedicate and choice of medication is left to the discretion of the anesthesia provider.
As with other inhalational anesthetics, desflurane has been observed to react with desiccated carbon dioxide (CO2) absorbents in anesthetic circle systems to form carbon monoxide and subsequently cause carboxyhemoglobinemia. Replace the CO2 absorbent if desiccation is suspected.
The recovery from general anesthesia should be assessed carefully before a patient is discharged from the postanesthesia care unit.
Pregnant operating room personnel should use proper precautions to avoid chronic exposure to desflurane, as it may increase the risk of miscarriage.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Dosage must be individualized.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Dosage must be individualized.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Dosage must be individualized.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Dosage must be individualized.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Dosage must be individualized.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Dosage must be individualized.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are necessary.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are necessary.
