=== Erdafitinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5139)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Erdafitinib is a kinase inhibitor that inhibits FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, and FGFR4.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 9 mg PO once daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): hypercalcemia, hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, blurred vision, retinopathy, xerophthalmia, anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Additionally, do not coadminister medications that alter serum phosphate levels before the initial erdafitinib dose increase scheduled between days 14 to 21, as this may interfere with determination of the appropriate dose of erdafitinib. Erdafitinib can cause hyperphosphatemia leading to soft... Emetic risk: Minimal/Low

Brand Names
  - Balversa

Dosage Forms
  - Balversa 3mg Tablet
  - Balversa 4mg Tablet
  - Balversa 5mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma with susceptible FGFR3 genetic alterations, that has progressed during or following at least one prior line of systemic therapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          8 mg PO once daily initially. After 14 to 21 days of treatment, increase the dose to 9 mg PO once daily if the serum phosphate level is less than 9 mg/dL and there are no ocular disorders or grade 2 or higher adverse reactions. Continue treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment of progressive, locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma with FGFR3 gene mutations or FGFR gene fusions with erdafitinib resulted in a confirmed objective response rate (ORR) of 40% in an open-label, phase 2 clinical trial (BLC2001), with 3% complete responses (CR); the median duration of response was 5.6 months. Responders included patients who had previously not responded to anti-PD-L1/PD-1 therapy. In a subgroup analysis by FGFR genetic alterations, the ORR was 49% in patients with an FGFR3 point mutation (n = 74), 16% in patients with an FGFR2/3 fusion (n = 25), and 0% in patients with an FGFR2 fusion. In Cohort 1 of a multicenter, randomized, phase 3 trial (THOR), treatment with erdafitinib significantly improved median overall survival (12.1 months vs. 7.8 months), median progression-free survival (5.6 months vs. 2.7 months), and ORR (35.3% vs. 8.5%; CR, 5.1% vs. 0.8%) in patients with FGFR3-positive advanced urothelial cancer compared with chemotherapy; all patients had received prior treatment with a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor. Treatment with erdafitinib was not superior to pembrolizumab at the final analysis of Cohort 2 of this study, with a median overall survival of 10.9 months versus 11.1 months, respectively.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment urothelial carcinoma

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    hyperphosphatemia
    General Information
    Avoid the use of erdafitinib in patients with hyperphosphatemia greater than 9 mg/dL; restrict phosphate intake to 600 to 800 mg daily for all patients. Additionally, do not coadminister medications that alter serum phosphate levels before the initial erdafitinib dose increase scheduled between days 14 to 21, as this may interfere with determination of the appropriate dose of erdafitinib. Erdafitinib can cause hyperphosphatemia leading to soft tissue mineralization, cutaneous calcinosis, non-uremic calciphylaxis and vascular calcification. Monitor phosphate levels monthly for hyperphosphatemia and follow dose modification guidelines when required; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hyperphosphatemia occurs.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    cataract surgery, dry eye disease, myopia, ocular trauma, posterior vitreous detachment, retinal detachment
    General Information
    Use erdafitinib with caution in patients with a history of dry eye disease, high myopia, posterior vitreous detachment (PVD), ocular trauma, previous cataract surgery, or a personal or family history of retinal detachment as these may increase the risk for retinal detachment. Erdafitinib can cause ocular disorders, including central serous retinopathy (CSR)/retinal pigment epithelial detachment (RPED) resulting in visual field defect. Dry eye symptoms were also commonly reported; all patients should receive dry eye prophylaxis with ocular demulcents as needed. Perform monthly ophthalmological examinations during the first 4 months of treatment and every 3 months thereafter, and urgently at any time for visual disturbance; examinations should include an assessment of visual acuity, slit lamp examination, fundoscopy, and optical coherence tomography. An interruption of therapy, discontinuation of therapy, or dose reduction may be necessary for ocular adverse reactions.
    Headline
    CYP2C9 poor metabolizer
    General Information
    Patients with the CYP2C9*3/*3 genotype, estimated to be present in 0.4% to 3% of the population among various ethnic groups, are considered to have a CYP2C9 poor metabolizer status. Monitor for an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions in these patients.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Erdafitinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. In rats, oral administration during organogenesis resulted in embryo-fetal death, major blood vessel malformations and other vascular anomalies, limb malformations (ectrodactyly, absent or misshapen long bones), an increased incidence of skeletal anomalies in multiple bones (vertebrae, sternebrae, ribs), and decreased fetal weight at exposures less than 0.1% of the total human exposure at the maximum recommended dose based on AUC. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with erdafitinib. Erdafitinib can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant and those who can cause pregnancy in others to use effective contraception while taking erdafitinib and for 1 month after the last dose. Based on animal data, erdafitinib may impair female fertility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking erdafitinib and for 1 month after the last dose. Erdafitinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of erdafitinib in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Erdafitinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. In rats, oral administration during organogenesis resulted in embryo-fetal death, major blood vessel malformations and other vascular anomalies, limb malformations (ectrodactyly, absent or misshapen long bones), an increased incidence of skeletal anomalies in multiple bones (vertebrae, sternebrae, ribs), and decreased fetal weight at exposures less than 0.1% of the total human exposure at the maximum recommended dose based on AUC. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking erdafitinib and for 1 month after the last dose. Erdafitinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of erdafitinib in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with erdafitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and adagrasib due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. If adagrasib is discontinued, the dose of erdafitinib may be increased in the absence of drug-related toxicity. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A and CYP2C9 substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. The mean ratio for the AUC of erdafitinib was 134% when coadministered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of erdafitinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of erdafitinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of aluminum hydroxide with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Aluminum hydroxide decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by aluminum hydroxide may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of aluminum hydroxide with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Aluminum hydroxide decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by aluminum hydroxide may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of aluminum hydroxide with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Aluminum hydroxide decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by aluminum hydroxide may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of aluminum hydroxide with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Aluminum hydroxide decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by aluminum hydroxide may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of aluminum hydroxide with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Aluminum hydroxide decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by aluminum hydroxide may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and amiodarone due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP2C9 substrate and amiodarone is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Asciminib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and asciminib 200 mg bid due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP2C9 substrate and asciminib 200 mg bid is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%. (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Bexarotene: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and bexarotene is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bosentan: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and bosentan is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Brodalumab: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and brodalumab due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. If brodalumab is discontinued, the dose of erdafitinib may be increased in the absence of drug-related toxicity. Erdafitinib is a CYP2C9 substrate and brodalumab is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Burosumab: (Major) Avoid coadministration of burosumab with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Burosumab increases serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Changes in serum phosphate levels by burosumab may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Calcitriol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcitriol with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Calcitriol can increase serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition; additionally, the initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels. Changes in serum phosphate levels by calcitriol may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia.
Calcium Acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium acetate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Calcium acetate decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by calcium acetate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Calcium Carbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Calcium carbonate decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by calcium carbonate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Calcium carbonate decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by calcium carbonate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Calcium carbonate decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by calcium carbonate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Calcium carbonate decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by calcium carbonate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Calcium carbonate decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by calcium carbonate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Calcium carbonate decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by calcium carbonate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and carbamazepine due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Cenobamate: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and cenobamate is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and ceritinib due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and chloramphenicol due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and erdafitinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cyclosporine with erdafitinib due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of cyclosporine. If concomitant use is unavoidable, separate erdafitinib administration by at least 6 hours before or after administration of cyclosporine; monitor cyclosporine levels. Cyclosporine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and dabrafenib is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%. (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%. (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Digoxin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of digoxin with erdafitinib due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of digoxin. If concomitant use is unavoidable, separate erdafitinib administration by at least 6 hours before or after administration of digoxin; monitor digoxin levels. Digoxin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with erdafitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with erdafitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with erdafitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with erdafitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with erdafitinib. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of erdafitinib. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of erdafitinib; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and efavirenz is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and efavirenz is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with erdafitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and efavirenz is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with erdafitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and elagolix is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and elagolix is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with erdafitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with erdafitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with erdafitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and encorafenib due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with erdafitinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and enzalutamide due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and eslicarbazepine is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Etravirine: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and etravirine is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and fexinidazole is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and fluconazole due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP2C9 substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and fosamprenavir due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. If fosamprenavir is discontinued, the dose of erdafitinib may be increased in the absence of drug-related toxicity. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The mean ratios for the Cmax and AUC of erdafitinib were 105% and 134%, respectively, when coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and erdafitinib as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-gp and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phosphates with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Sodium phosphates increase serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Changes in serum phosphate levels by sodium phosphate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Potassium phosphate increases serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Changes in serum phosphate levels by potassium phosphate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia. (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phosphates with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Sodium phosphates increase serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Changes in serum phosphate levels by sodium phosphate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and idelalisib due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Iron Sucrose, Sucroferric Oxyhydroxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of iron sucrose; sucroferric oxyhydroxide with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Iron sucrose; sucroferric oxyhydroxide decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by iron sucrose; sucroferric oxyhydroxide may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and itraconazole due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with itraconazole increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with erdafitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Lanthanum Carbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lanthanum carbonate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Lanthanum carbonate decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by lanthanum carbonate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib with oral lefamulin as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects. If coadministration of erdafitinib with oral lefamulin is unavoidable, separate erdafitinib and lefamulin doses by at least 6 hours. Erdafitinib may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and lonafarnib due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with erdafitinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with erdafitinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Lorlatinib: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and lorlatinib is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with erdafitinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phosphates with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Sodium phosphates increase serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Changes in serum phosphate levels by sodium phosphate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and mifepristone due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A and CYP2C9 substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A and moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and mitotane due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Modafinil: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and modafinil is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, administer the dose of erdafitinib as recommended (8 mg once daily with potential to increase the dose to 9 mg on days 14 to 21 based on phosphate levels and tolerability). If modafinil must be added to erdafitinib therapy after the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21), increase the dose of erdafitinib up to 9 mg. If modafinil is discontinued, continue erdafitinib at the same dose in the absence of drug-related toxicity. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Nafcillin: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and nafcillin is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with erdafitinib. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and erdafitinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and nefazodone due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and nelfinavir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and rifabutin is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Pacritinib: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and pacritinib is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and erdafitinib due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. If coadministration of erdafitinib with pazopanib is necessary, separate erdafitinib and pazopanib doses by at least 6 hours. Pazopanib is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Pexidartinib: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and pexidartinib is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and posaconazole due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. Concomitant use may also increase posaconazole exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate based on response. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and posaconazole is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Potassium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Potassium phosphate increases serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Changes in serum phosphate levels by potassium phosphate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Potassium phosphate increases serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Changes in serum phosphate levels by potassium phosphate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia. (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phosphates with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Sodium phosphates increase serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Changes in serum phosphate levels by sodium phosphate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of erdafitinib with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and erdafitinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and relacorilant due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral erdafitinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer erdafitinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral erdafitinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer erdafitinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with erdafitinib. Concomitant use may increase repotrectinib exposure and risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects and decrease erdafitinib exposure and efficacy. While use is not recommended, if combination therapy is necessary, an erdafitinib dosage increase is required. If coadministration of erdafitinib and repotrectinib is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Rifabutin: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and rifabutin is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and rifampin due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and rifapentine due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with erdafitinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and saquinavir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. Concomitant use may also increase saquinavir exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate based on response. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and saquinavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Sevelamer: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sevelamer with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Sevelamer decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by sevelamer may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and erdafitinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. If coadministration of erdafitinib with silodosin is necessary, separate erdafitinib and silodosin doses by at least 6 hours. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of erdafitinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phosphates with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Sodium phosphates increase serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Changes in serum phosphate levels by sodium phosphate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia.
Sotorasib: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and sotorasib is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and St. John's wort due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and sulfamethoxazole due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP2C9 substrate and sulfamethoxazole is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erdafitinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with erdafitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with erdafitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and tipranavir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. Concomitant use may also increase tipranavir exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate based on response. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and tipranavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure. If coadministration of erdafitinib with oral topotecan is necessary, separate erdafitinib and topotecan doses by at least 6 hours. Erdafitinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and tucatinib due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with erdafitinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and valproic acid due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. If valproic acid is discontinued, the dose of erdafitinib may be increased in the absence of drug-related toxicity. Erdafitinib is a CYP2C9 substrate and valproic acid is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with erdafitinib due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of erdafitinib. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phosphates with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Sodium phosphates increase serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Changes in serum phosphate levels by sodium phosphate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia. (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of erdafitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of erdafitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and voriconazole due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    hypercalcemia, hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Increases in phosphate levels are a pharmacodynamic effect of erdafitinib as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Hyperphosphatemia was reported in 73% of patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma and FGFR alteration who received erdafitinib based on a pooled safety population (n = 479), with a median time to onset of 16 days; grade 3 or 4 increase in phosphate levels occurred in 1.2% to 5% of patients in 2 clinical trials. Phosphate binders were used in 24% of patients with hyperphosphatemia. Vascular calcification occurred in 0.2% of erdafitinib-treated patients. Restrict daily phosphate intake to 600 mg to 800 mg. Monitor serum phosphate throughout treatment course; erdafitinib dose reduction, interruption, or discontinuation may be necessary. Consider starting oral phosphate binder in patients with serum phosphate greater than 7 mg/dL. Hypophosphatemia, hyponatremia, hypomagnesemia, hypercalcemia, and hyperkalemia were also reported in clinical trials, with decreases from baseline in phosphorous (24% to 34%; grade 3 or 4, 8% to 9%), sodium (40% to 44%; grade 3 or 4, 16%), and magnesium (31% or less; grade 3 or 4, 1.2% or less). Increases from baseline were reported with serum calcium (22% to 27%; grade 3 or 4, 3.5% to 8%) and potassium (24% or less).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperphosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypercalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, retinopathy, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Central serous retinopathy (CSR)/retinal pigment epithelial detachment (RPED; retinal detachment) resulting in visual field defect was reported in 22% of patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma and FGFR alteration who received erdafitinib based on a pooled safety population (n = 479), with a median time to first onset of 46 days; grade 3 or 4 CSR were reported in 2.2% to 4.6% of patients in 2 clinical trials. CSR/RPED occurred in 104 erdafitinib-treated patients which led to an interruption of therapy in 40% of patients, a dose reduction in 56% of patients, and discontinuation of therapy in 3% of patients. Twenty-four patients restarted erdafitinib with or without a dose reduction, 67% had worsening or recurring CSR. CSR/RPED was ongoing at the time of last evaluation in 41% of the 104 patients. Monitor patients for ocular symptoms and perform opthalmic evaluation as needed; dose interruption, or discontinuation may be necessary. Dry eye (xerophthalmia) symptoms occurred in 25% to 29% (grade 3 or 4; 0.7% to 1.1%) of erdafitinib-treated patients. All patients should receive dry eye prophylaxis with ocular demulcents as needed. A nonrandomized clinical trial (n = 87) reported blurred vision in 17% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      retinopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions were commonly reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who received erdafitinib in clinical trials, including stomatitis (56% to 62%; grade 3 or 4, 10% to 11%), diarrhea (48% to 63%; grade 3 or 4, 3% to 4.6%), xerostomia (39% to 45%), constipation (27% to 28%; grade 3 or 4, 1.1% or less), nausea (15% to 21%; grade 3 or 4, 1.1% or less), and vomiting (10% to 13%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, weight loss
    General Information
    Metabolism and nutrition disorders were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who received erdafitinib during clinical trials, including decreased appetite/anorexia (27% to 38%; grade 3 or 4, 3% or less) and weight loss (16% to 22%; grade 3 or 4, 2% or less).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysgeusia
    General Information
    Dysgeusia was reported in 30% to 38% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who received erdafitinib in clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% to 1.1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue, fever
    General Information
    Fatigue (29% to 54%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5% to 8%) and fever (14% to 15%) were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who received erdafitinib in clinical trials. A nonrandomized clinical trial (n = 87) reported 2 fatal adverse events related to fatigue.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), xerosis
    General Information
    Skin and subcutaneous disorders were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who received erdafitinib in clinical trials, including nail disorders (62% to 70%; grade 3 or 4, 12% to 14%), xerosis (27% to 37%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5% or less), palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) (26% to 30%; grade 3 or 4, 6% to 10%), and alopecia (25% to 26%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Urinary tract infection was reported in 17% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who received erdafitinib in a nonrandomized trial (n = 87) (grade 3 or 4, 6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    epistaxis, hematuria
    General Information
    Epistaxis (13%) and hematuria (3.7%) were reported in patients receiving erdafitinib for locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma in a randomized clinical trial (n = 135).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    renal failure
    General Information
    Increased serum creatinine was reported in 43% to 52% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who received erdafitinib in clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 1.5% to 4.7%). In a randomized trial (n = 135), 2.2% of patients developed an acute kidney injury. Renal failure resulted in fatality in 0.7% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia
    General Information
    Arthralgia occurred in 10% of patients receiving erdafitinib for locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma in a randomized clinical trial (n = 135). Extremity pain was also reported in 13% of patients in a nonrandomized clinical trial (n = 87).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic adverse reactions were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who received erdafitinib in clinical trials, including decreased hemoglobin (anemia) (35% to 50%; grade 3 or 4, 3.5% to 12%), decreased platelets (thrombocytopenia) (17% to 19%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2% to 1.5%), decreased leukocytes (leukopenia) (17%), and decreased neutrophils (neutropenia) (16% or less; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who received erdafitinib in clinical trials, including increased ALT (41% to 46%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2% to 3.8%), increased alkaline phosphatase (41% to 54%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2% to 4.7%), and increased AST (30% to 44%; grade 3 or 4, 3.1% or less).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral edema
    General Information
    Peripheral edema occurred in 10% of patients receiving erdafitinib for locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma in a nonrandomized clinical trial (n = 87).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal data, erdafitinib may cause female infertility.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    bone fractures
    General Information
    Skeletal related adverse effects including bone fractures and epiphysiolysis have occurred in pediatric patients (ages 6 to younger than 18 years) with FGFR-positive advanced solid tumors treated with erdafitinib in a clinical trial. Cases of slipped capital femoral epiphysis and accelerated linear growth have also been reported in patients treated with erdafitinib in literature reports and in the postmarketing setting.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bone fractures
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Erdafitinib is a kinase inhibitor that inhibits FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, and FGFR4. It is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma that has susceptible FGFR3 genetic alterations and has progressed during or following at least 1 line of systemic therapy; erdafitinib is not recommended for patients who are eligible for and have not received treatment with a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor. As a consequence of FGFR inhibition, erdafitinib is associated with hyperphosphatemia; dose adjustments are necessary based on the serum phosphate level. Ocular disorders including central serous retinopathy/retinal pigment epithelial detachment (CSR/RPED) are also common; ophthalmological examinations should be performed regularly.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Erdafitinib is a kinase inhibitor that binds to and inhibits the enzymatic activity of FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, and FGFR4 based on in vitro data. Erdafitinib inhibited FGFR phosphorylation and signaling and decreased cell viability in cell lines expressing FGFR genetic alterations including point mutations, amplifications, and fusions. It demonstrated antitumor activity in FGFR-expressing cell lines and xenograft models derived from tumor types, including bladder cancer.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following administration of erdafitinib 8 mg once daily, the mean steady-state maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) was 1,399 ng/mL (CV, 51%), mean area under the curve (AUC) was 29,268 ng x hour/mL (CV, 60%), and mean minimum plasma concentration (Cmin) was 936 ng/mL (CV, 65%). The median time to achieve peak plasma concentration (Tmax) was 2.5 hours (range, 2 to 6 hours). Following single and repeat once daily dosing, erdafitinib exposure (Cmax and AUC) increased proportionally across the dose range of 0.5 mg to 12 mg (0.06 to 1.3 times the maximum approved recommended dose). Food did not have a clinically meaningful effect on erdafitinib pharmacokinetics.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild and moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on erdafitinib exposure. Limited data are available in patients with severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild or moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on erdafitinib exposure. Limited data are available in patients with severe renal impairment. The pharmacokinetics of erdafitinib in patients with renal impairment requiring dialysis is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (range, 21 to 92 years) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on erdafitinib exposure.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender did not have a clinically meaningful effect on erdafitinib exposure.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Ethnicity did not have a clinically meaningful effect on erdafitinib exposure.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (range, 36 kg to 166 kg) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on erdafitinib exposure.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    CYP2C9 activity
Genetic variants of CYP2C9 such as CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3 polymorphisms have reduced CYP2C9 activity. Erdafitinib exposure was similar in subjects with CYP2C9*1/*2 and *1*3 genotypes relative to subjects with CYP2C9*1*1 genotype (wild type). No data are available in subjects with other genotypes (e.g., *2/*2, *2/*3, *3/*3). Simulation suggested no clinically meaningful differences in erdafitinib exposure in subjects with CYP2C9*2/*2 and *2/*3 genotypes. The exposure of erdafitinib is predicted to be 50% higher in subjects with the CYP2C9*3/*3 genotype, which is estimated to be present in 0.4% to 3% of the population among various ethnic groups.
  Text
  Erdafitinib is administered orally. It is 99.7% protein bound, primarily to alpha-1-acid glycoprotein. The mean apparent volume of distribution (Vd) of erdafitinib is 29 liters. The mean total apparent clearance (CL/F) was 0.362 L/hour, with a mean effective half-life of 59 hours. Steady-state was achieved after 2 weeks with once-daily dosing, and the mean accumulation ratio was 4-fold. Following a single oral dose of radiolabeled erdafitinib, approximately 69% of the dose was recovered in feces (19% as unchanged drug) and 19% in urine (13% as unchanged drug).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C9, CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
Erdafitinib is primarily metabolized by CYP2C9 (39%) and CYP3A4 (20%); unchanged erdafitinib was the major drug-related moiety in plasma and there were no circulating metabolites. Erdafitinib is a time-dependent inhibitor and inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro. Erdafitinib is also a substrate and inhibitor of P-gp in vitro, although P-gp inhibitors are not expected to affect erdafitinib exposure to a clinically relevant extent; erdafitinib may increase plasma concentrations of P-gp substrates. Erdafitinib is an inhibitor of OCT2 in vitro.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
Premedications
All patients should receive dry eye prophylaxis with ocular demulcents as needed.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Swallow tablets whole, with or without food.
If vomiting occurs, do not replace the dose; the next dose should be taken the next day.
If a dose is missed, it can be taken as soon as possible on the same day; do not take extra tablets to make up for the missed dose. Resume the regular daily schedule on the next day.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    9 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    9 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B): No dose adjustment is recommended.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Limited data are available.
  Renal Impairment
  Mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min): No dosage adjustment is recommended.
Severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min): Limited data are available.
Renal impairment requiring dialysis: No data are available.
