=== Pacritinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5389)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Pacritinib is a Janus associated kinase-2 (JAK2) and FMS-like tyrosine kinase-3 (FLT3) inhibitor approved for the treatment of adult patients with intermediate- or high-risk primary or secondary (post-polycythemia vera or post-essential thrombocythemia) myelofibrosis with a platelet count below 50...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 400 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, disseminated intravascular coagulation, hypotension, tumor flare, leukemia, new primary malignancy, skin cancer

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Avoid the use of pacritinib in patients with active bleeding.

Brand Names
  - VONJO

Dosage Forms
  - VONJO 100mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of intermediate- or high-risk primary or secondary (post-polycythemia vera or post-essential thrombocythemia) myelofibrosis in patients with a platelet count below 50 x 10^9 cells/L
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          200 mg PO twice daily. Prescribe antidiarrheal medication (e.g., loperamide) upon initiation of therapy and instruct patients to treat diarrhea at the first onset of symptoms. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. If applicable, taper or discontinue other kinase inhibitors (according to their prescribing information) prior to starting pacritinib. Therapy interruption, a dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe toxicity. The rates of patients achieving 35% or more spleen volume reduction (SVR; 22% vs. 3%) and 50% or more reduction in total symptom score (TSS; 32% vs. 14%) at week 24 were significantly higher in patients (median age, 67 years; range, 39 to 85 years) with intermediate- or high-risk primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 x 10^9 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 74) compared with physician choice best available therapy (n = 72) in a multicenter, randomized (1:1:1), 3-arm, phase 3 (PERSIST-2) trial. In patients who had a baseline platelet count of 50 x 10^9 cells/L or less, a 35% or more SVR was achieved in 29% of patients in the pacritinib arm (n = 31) and 3% of patients in the best available therapy arm (n = 32); a 50% or more reduction in TSS occurred in 23% and 13% of patients, respectively. Additionally, patients with a baseline platelet count of 50 X 109 cells/L or less had a median reduction in spleen volume of 27.3% in the pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily arm compared with 0.9% in the best available therapy arm. The most common best available therapy given in patients with a baseline platelet count of 50 x 10^9 cells/L or less consisted of ruxolitinib (39%), no treatment/watchful waiting (32%), and hydroxyurea (26%). Of note, 50% of patients in the best available therapy arm crossed-over to the pacritinib arm.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of myelofibrosis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bleeding, planned procedure
    General Information
    Avoid the use of pacritinib in patients with active bleeding. Do not administer pacritinib for at least 7 days prior to a planned procedure, elective surgery, or invasive procedure due to the risk of hemorrhage; restart therapy only after hemostasis is assured. An interruption of therapy and medical intervention may be necessary if hemorrhage occurs.
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Avoid the use of pacritinib in patients with an active serious infection; delay starting therapy until the infection has resolved. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infection. Use active surveillance and prophylactic antibiotics according to clinical guidelines and treat infections promptly. An increased risk of serious infection was reported in patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms who have received other JAK inhibitors.
    Headline
    cardiac disease, tobacco smoking
    General Information
    Consider the risks and benefits of pacritinib therapy in patients with cardiac disease as well as patients with a history of malignancy (other than a successfully treated non-melanoma skin cancer). Another Janus associated kinase (JAK)-inhibitor increased the risk of Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE) (e.g., cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, and stroke), lymphoma, and other malignancies (excluding non-melanoma skin cancer) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis compared to those treated with TNF blockers; patients who have a history of tobacco smoking or who are current tobacco smokers are at increased risk.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of pacritinib in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. The manufacturer recommends avoidance of pacritinib in patients with a baseline QTc of greater than 480 msec or treatment-associated QT prolongation greater than 500 msec; correct any hypokalemia prior to and during pacritinib treatment. An interruption of therapy or dose reduction in addition to electrolyte management is necessary if QT prolongation occurs.
    Headline
    diarrhea
    General Information
    Diarrhea is common in patients treated with pacritinib, most often occurring in the first 8 weeks of therapy. Control any pre-existing diarrhea prior to starting treatment with pacritinib. Advise patients to start anti-diarrheal medications and ensure adequate oral fluid intake for new onset diarrhea. Therapy interruption, a dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe diarrhea; intensify the anti-diarrheal treatment regimen and administer fluid replacement in these patients.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Avoid the use of pacritinib in patients with severe renal impairment or renal failure (eGFR less than 30 mL/min including patients on dialysis) due to increased pacritinib exposure compared to subjects with normal renal function (eGFR 90 mL/min or higher), which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Consider the benefits versus the risk of therapy prior to administering pacritinib during pregnancy. There are no drug-related data to evaluate the use of pacritinib in pregnant women. Oral administration of pacritinib during organogenesis at doses (15, 30, or 60 mg/kg/day) that led to drug exposures 0.1 times (in mice) and 0.3 times (in rabbits) the exposures observed with the recommended human dose resulted in post implantation loss and an increased incidence of external malformations (cleft palate) in mice, fetal loss in rabbits, and reduced fetal body weights in both species. Increased gestation length and dystocia, lowered mean birth weights and neonatal survival, and transiently delayed startle response, learning, and memory development at weaning were observed in the offspring of pregnant mice who received pacritinib 250 mg/kg/day starting at implantation through lactation.
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Impaired fertility/infertility may occur in male patients who receive pacritinib, based on data from a fertility study in mice.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use pacritinib with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C); a dose reduction is recommended in these patients. Monitor hepatically-impaired patients for adverse reactions and consider dose modifications based on safety and efficacy. Pacritinib has not been studied in patients with hepatic failure.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    It is not known if pacritinib is secreted in human milk or if it has effects on the breast-fed child or on milk production. Because there is a potential for serious adverse reactions in a nursing child, breast-feeding is not recommended during pacritinib therapy and for 2 weeks after the last dose.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Use pacritinib with caution in people with diabetes mellitus. Hypoglycemia, including severe hypoglycemia, has been reported in individuals with diabetes mellitus who have started other JAK inhibitors. During treatment with JAK inhibitors, consider increased blood glucose monitoring as clinically indicated in individuals with diabetes. Advise individuals to notify their health care provider if they develop signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Consider the benefits versus the risk of therapy prior to administering pacritinib during pregnancy. There are no drug-related data to evaluate the use of pacritinib in pregnant women. Oral administration of pacritinib during organogenesis at doses (15, 30, or 60 mg/kg/day) that led to drug exposures 0.1 times (in mice) and 0.3 times (in rabbits) the exposures observed with the recommended human dose resulted in post implantation loss and an increased incidence of external malformations (cleft palate) in mice, fetal loss in rabbits, and reduced fetal body weights in both species. Increased gestation length and dystocia, lowered mean birth weights and neonatal survival, and transiently delayed startle response, learning, and memory development at weaning were observed in the offspring of pregnant mice who received pacritinib 250 mg/kg/day starting at implantation through lactation.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    It is not known if pacritinib is secreted in human milk or if it has effects on the breast-fed child or on milk production. Because there is a potential for serious adverse reactions in a nursing child, breast-feeding is not recommended during pacritinib therapy and for 2 weeks after the last dose.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy or increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with pacritinib. Concomitant use may decrease or increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Abemaciclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pacritinib with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of dihydrocodeine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of dihydrocodeine as needed. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of dihydrocodeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with pacritinib can decrease dihydrocodeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased dihydromorphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with pacritinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and adagrasib is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of pacritinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of pacritinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Aficamten: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and pacritinib; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If pacritinib is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inducer like pacritinib with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with pacritinib due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Amobarbital: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease clarithromycin exposure and efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer, clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Apalutamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with apalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Apomorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with aprepitant/fosaprepitant is necessary and consider dose adjustments as needed for safety. Concomitant use may increase pacritinib exposure. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and artemether; lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP2C19 inducer. Coadministration could decrease exposure to carisoprodol and increase exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposure in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with pacritinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with atazanavir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of atazanavir may also be decreased. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and atazanavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with atazanavir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of atazanavir may also be decreased. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and atazanavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of cobicistat may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Atogepant: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and pacritinib when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with pacritinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Atrasentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. The exposure of pacritinib may also be increased. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with pacritinib is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with pacritinib due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure and peak of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Axitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with pacritinib if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Barbiturates: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in baxdrostat efficacy during concomitant use with pacritinib. Concomitant use may decrease baxdrostat exposure. Baxdrostat is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of bedaquiline and pacritinib may decrease bedaquiline exposure and efficacy and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Bedaquiline is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased bedaquiline exposure by approximately 20%. The overall exposure and peak of the primary metabolite of bedaquiline (M2) were increased by 70% and 80%, respectively.
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if pacritinib treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Concomitant use of pacritinib may increase bendamustine exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions (e.g., myelosuppression, infection, hepatotoxicity). Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with berotralstat is necessary and consider dose adjustments as needed for safety. Concomitant use may increase pacritinib exposure. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased lenacapavir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Pacritinib exposure may also increase. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with pacritinib is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day pacritinib is initiated, a supplemental lenacapavir subcutaneous dose of 463.5 mg should be administered. If pacritinib is continued beyond 6 months, this supplemental dose should be repeated every 6 months. After pacritinib discontinuation, resume the standard 6-month lenacapavir injection schedule. Recommendations are not available for individuals already on pacritinib at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 56%. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with pacritinib due to decreased plasma exposure to brigatinib which may result in decreased efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, after 7 days of concomitant treatment with pacritinib, increase the dose of brigatinib as tolerated in 30 mg increments to a maximum of twice the original brigatinib dose. Brigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 50%.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease buprenorphine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine based on response. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease buprenorphine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine based on response. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buspirone if pacritinib is added to a patient on a stable dosage of buspirone; a dose increase of buspirone may be needed to maintain anxiolytic activity. Buspirone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with pacritinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with pacritinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of rilpivirine and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease rilpivirine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Cabozantinib: (Major) For patients taking cabozantinib tablets, avoid the concomitant use of cabozantinib and pacritinib. If use is necessary, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 20 mg (e.g., 60 mg/day to 80 mg/day; 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day) up to a maximum daily dose of 80 mg. Concomitant use may reduce cabozantinib exposure. Cabozantinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capivasertib with pacritinib due to decreased capivasertib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the capivasertib overall exposure by 60%.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
carBAMazepine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with carbamazepine is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. The exposure of carbamazepine may also be decreased. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Cariprazine: (Major) Coadministration of cariprazine with pacritinib is not recommended as the net effect of CYP3A induction on cariprazine and its metabolites is unclear. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of cariprazine with CYP3A inducers has not been evaluated.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP2C19 inducer. Coadministration could decrease exposure to carisoprodol and increase exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposure in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ceritinib is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with chloramphenicol is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with pacritinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase pacritinib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and pacritinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease clarithromycin exposure and efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer, clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and clofazimine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in clomipramine-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; a clomipramine dose reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase clomipramine exposure; clomipramine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Major) Concomitant use of clozapine and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may alter clozapine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or increased risk for other clozapine-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Clozapine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a weak CYP1A inhibitor and moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of cobicistat may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cobimetinib and pacritinib due to the risk for altered cobimetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy or increase the risk for cobimetinib-related adverse reactions. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with pacritinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with pacritinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with pacritinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with pacritinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with pacritinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with pacritinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and pacritinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with conivaptan is necessary and consider dose adjustments as needed for safety. Concomitant use may increase pacritinib exposure. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Crinecerfont: (Major) Increase the crinecerfont evening dose 2-fold if concomitant use with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use is expected to decrease crinecerfont exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Crinecerfont is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Crizotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and crizotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase pacritinib exposure and the risk for other pacritinib-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine concentrations and adjust the dose of cyclosporine as appropriate if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Concurrent use may alter cyclosporine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or increased risk of cyclosporine-related adverse reactions. Additionally, monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions as the exposure of pacritinib may also be increased. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Closely monitor for a reduction in dapsone efficacy and signs of hemolytic anemia if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Dapsone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of dapsone and increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine (a metabolite associated with hemolysis).
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daridorexant and pacritinib. Coadministration may decrease daridorexant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased daridorexant overall exposure by over 50%.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with darunavir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of darunavir may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of cobicistat may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with darunavir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of darunavir may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of cobicistat may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with darunavir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of darunavir may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dasatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and dasatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Deflazacort: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of deflazacort and pacritinib. Concurrent use may significantly decrease concentrations of 21-desDFZ , the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in loss of efficacy. Deflazacort is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Degarelix: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate and pacritinib is a dual moderate CYP3A and CYP2C19 inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing pacritinib. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration increased digoxin exposure by 15%.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate and adjust the diltiazem dose based on clinical response if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease diltiazem exposure and reduce efficacy. Additionally, monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions and consider a pacritinib dosage reduction as needed for safety; the exposure of pacritinib may be increased. Diltiazem is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased diltiazem exposure by 69%. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy or increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with pacritinib. Concomitant use may decrease or increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy or increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with pacritinib. Concomitant use may decrease or increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of rilpivirine and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease rilpivirine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy or increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with pacritinib. Concomitant use may decrease or increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Donepezil: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Doravirine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and pacritinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and pacritinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pacritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and pacritinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased dordaviprone exposure and efficacy and additive risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and doxorubicin due to unpredictable effects on doxorubicin concentration. Coadministration may alter the exposure of doxorubicin resulting in decreased efficacy or increased toxicity. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and doxorubicin due to unpredictable effects on doxorubicin concentration. Coadministration may alter the exposure of doxorubicin resulting in decreased efficacy or increased toxicity. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in dronabinol efficacy if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase pacritinib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Drospirenone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of duvelisib and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased duvelisib exposure and increased pacritinib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of duvelisib on day 12 of coadministration from 25 mg PO twice daily to 40 mg PO twice daily or from 15 mg PO twice daily to 25 mg PO twice daily. When pacritinib has been discontinued for at least 14 days, resume duvelisib at the dose taken prior to initiating treatment with pacritinib. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of duvelisib with another moderate CYP3A inducer for 12 days decreased duvelisib exposure by 35%. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with pacritinib. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of pacritinib. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of pacritinib; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and efavirenz increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and efavirenz increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pacritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and efavirenz increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pacritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of elacestrant and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased elacestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced elacestrant overall exposure by 55% to 73%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of grazoprevir and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease grazoprevir exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Grazoprevir is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. (Major) Coadministration of elbasvir with pacritinib is not recommended due to decreased exposure of elbasvir, resulting in decreased virologic response. Elbasvir is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Eliglustat: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and eliglustat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of cobicistat may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold. (Moderate) Coadministration of elvitegravir with pacritinib may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of elvitegravir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with cobicistat is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of cobicistat may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold. (Moderate) Coadministration of elvitegravir with pacritinib may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of elvitegravir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pacritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concomitant use of rilpivirine and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease rilpivirine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of rilpivirine and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease rilpivirine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pacritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pacritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and encorafenib is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased pacritinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with pacritinib due to the risk of altered ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy or increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of entrectinib and pacritinib may decrease entrectinib exposure and efficacy and increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Entrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce the entrectinib overall exposure by 56%.
Enzalutamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with enzalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Erdafitinib: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and pacritinib is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with pacritinib if possible due to the risk of decreased erlotinib efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of erlotinib in 50 mg increments at 2-week intervals as tolerated (maximum dose, 450 mg). Erlotinib is a CYP3A substrate, and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase pacritinib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure.
Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of etravirine and pacritinib may decrease plasma concentrations of etravirine, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of antiretroviral drug resistance. Although specific recommendations are unavailable for use with pacritinib, coadministration with other moderate CYP2C19 and CYP3A inducers is not recommended. Etravirine is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a dual moderate CYP2C19 and CYP3A inducer. Concurrent use of another moderate CYP2C19 or moderate CYP3A inducer decreased etravirine exposure by approximately 75% and 35%, respectively.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and monitor for a decrease in everolimus efficacy or an increase in everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be adjusted. Everolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fedratinib with pacritinib as concurrent use may decrease fedratinib exposure which may result in decreased therapeutic response. Concomitant use may also increase pacritinib exposure and the risk for pacritinib-related adverse effects. Fedratinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of fedratinib with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the overall exposure of fedratinib by 47%. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of pacritinib is necessary. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like pacritinib with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fezolinetant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fezolinetant and pacritinib is contraindicated due to the risk of increased fezolinetant exposure which may increase the risk of fezolinetant-related adverse effects. Fezolinetant is a CYP1A2 substrate; pacritinib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP1A2 inhibitor increased fezolinetant overall exposure by 100%.
Finerenone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of finerenone and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased finerenone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased overall exposure to finerenone by 80%.
Fingolimod: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and fingolimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flibanserin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of flibanserin and pacritinib due to the potential for decreased plasma concentrations of flibanserin. Flibanserin is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased flibanserin exposure by approximately 21%.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and fluconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase pacritinib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of pacritinib and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and fluvoxamine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase pacritinib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in fosamprenavir efficacy and an increase in pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease fosamprenavir exposure and increase pacritinib exposure. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with phenytoin/fosphenytoin is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Fruquintinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fruquintinib with pacritinib if possible due to the risk for decreased fruquintinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concomitant use of fruquintinib and pacritinib is necessary, monitor for decreased efficacy. Fruquintinib is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease fruquintinib exposure by 32%.
Ganaxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ganaxolone and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased ganaxolone efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing ganaxolone dose without exceeding the maximum daily dose. Ganaxolone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and gemifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and gemtuzumab increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease gepotidacin exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if gepotidacin is being used to treat gonorrhea and in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce gepotidacin overall exposure by 49%.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of glasdegib and pacritinib may decrease glasdegib exposure and efficacy and increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, double the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after pacritinib has been discontinued for 7 days. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer was predicted to decrease glasdegib overall exposure by 55%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in glecaprevir efficacy or increased toxicity if concomitant use with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may alter the concentration of glecaprevir resulting in increased or decreased exposure. Glecaprevir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp and pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Goserelin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Granisetron: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and granisetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during pacritinib treatment due to the risk for increased pacritinib exposure and adverse reactions. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
guanFACINE: (Major) A dose increase of extended-release (ER) guanfacine should be considered if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Consider doubling the recommended dose of guanfacine if therapy is added to a patient already taking pacritinib; increase the dose of guanfacine over 1 to 2 weeks if pacritinib therapy is added to a patient already taking guanfacine. Specific recommendations for immediate-release (IR) guanfacine are not available. Guanfacine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and haloperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and hydroxyzine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Ibrexafungerp: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of ibrexafungerp with pacritinib. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease ibrexafungerp exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Ibrexafungerp is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with idelalisib is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for increased ifosfamide-related toxicities (e.g., neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity) if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider adjusting the dose of ifosfamide as clinically appropriate. Ifosfamide is metabolized to its active alkylating metabolites by CYP3A; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use may increase the formation of the neurotoxic/nephrotoxic ifosfamide metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with imatinib is necessary and consider dose adjustments as needed for safety. Concomitant use may increase pacritinib exposure. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and pacritinib. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and inotuzumab increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with isavuconazonium is necessary and consider dose adjustments as needed for safety. Concomitant use may increase pacritinib exposure. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and itraconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased pacritinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased pacritinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pacritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease clarithromycin exposure and efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer, clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Lapatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of lapatinib and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase lapatinib exposure and the risk for other lapatinib-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate, pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of larotrectinib and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased larotrectinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, double the dose of larotrectinib and monitor response. If pacritinib is discontinued, resume the original larotrectinib dose after 3 to 5 elimination half-lives of pacritinib. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease larotrectinib exposure by 72%.
Lazertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Lefamulin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and lefamulin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also decrease lefamulin exposure, resulting in decreased efficacy, or increase lefamulin and pacritinib exposure and the risk for adverse effects. Lefamulin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor and moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and pacritinib as concurrent use may decrease lemborexant exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased lenacapavir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Pacritinib exposure may also increase. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with pacritinib is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day pacritinib is initiated, a supplemental lenacapavir subcutaneous dose of 463.5 mg should be administered. If pacritinib is continued beyond 6 months, this supplemental dose should be repeated every 6 months. After pacritinib discontinuation, resume the standard 6-month lenacapavir injection schedule. Recommendations are not available for individuals already on pacritinib at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 56%. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of leniolisib and pacritinib. Concomitant use may decrease leniolisib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Leniolisib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced leniolisib overall exposure by 58%.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with letermovir is necessary and consider dose adjustments as needed for safety. Concomitant use of pacritinib with combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase pacritinib exposure. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold while coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Leuprolide: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased pacritinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lonafarnib and pacritinib is contraindicated; concomitant use may decrease lonafarnib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy, and increase pacritinib exposure, which increases the risk for pacritinib-related adverse reactions. Lonafarnib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate, pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate, pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and lopinavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also decrease lopinavir exposure and increase the risk of virologic failure and drug resistance. Lopinavir is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with ritonavir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of ritonavir may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and pacritinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and pacritinib as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) If lurasidone is used with pacritinib, it may be necessary to increase the lurasidone dose after chronic treatment (7 days or more) with pacritinib. Concurrent use may lead to a decrease in efficacy of lurasidone. Lurasidone is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Maraviroc: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and maraviroc. Coadministration has an unpredictable effect on the exposure of maraviroc which may reduce efficacy or increase the risk for toxicity. Maraviroc is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Mavacamten: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of mavacamten and pacritinib is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased mavacamten exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavacamten is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate and pacritinib is a dual moderate CYP3A and CYP2C19 inducer.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Mefloquine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and mefloquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use may also alter the exposure of mefloquine resulting in increased or decreased exposure. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mefloquine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of methadone and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease methadone exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A and CYP2C19 inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Methohexital: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of mexiletine if coadministered with pacritinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of mexiletine. Mexiletine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and mifepristone is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with pacritinib, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Mitotane: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with mitotane is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and pacritinib may decrease mobocertinib exposure and efficacy and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with pacritinib. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and pacritinib. Coadministration may have an unpredictable effect on overall sirolimus concentrations, resulting in decreased efficacy or increased risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with nefazodone is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with nelfinavir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of nelfinavir may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A and CYP2C19 inducer and nelfinavir is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Nerandomilast: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in nerandomilast efficacy if concomitant use with pacritinib is necessary; use a nerandomilast dosage of 18 mg twice daily and avoid a nerandomilast dosage reduction. Concurrent use may decrease nerandomilast exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nerandomilast is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased nerandomilast overall exposure by 41%.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib with neratinib due to decreased efficacy of neratinib. Neratinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Simulations using physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models suggest that another moderate CYP3A inducer may decrease neratinib exposure by 52%.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with netupitant is necessary and consider dose adjustments as needed for safety. Concomitant use may increase pacritinib exposure. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Nilotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and nilotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase pacritinib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with ritonavir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of ritonavir may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and pacritinib may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease nirogacestat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. The exposure of pacritinib may also be increased resulting in increased risk for adverse effects. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce nirogacestat overall exposure by 67%. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with pacritinib as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with pacritinib due to the risk of decreasing the efficacy of olaparib. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may decrease olaparib exposure. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the olaparib Cmax by 31% and the AUC by 60%.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Olutasidenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of olutasidenib and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased olutasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Olutasidenib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in orforglipron efficacy during concomitant use of orforglipron and pacritinib; consider an orforglipron dosage increase as appropriate based on response. Concomitant use may decrease orforglipron exposure. Orforglipron is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce orforglipron overall exposure by 61%.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oveporexton: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oveporexton and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease oveporexton exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce oveporexton overall exposure by 73%.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease palovarotene exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Paltusotine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in paltusotine efficacy during concomitant use of paltusotine and pacritinib; increase the paltusotine dosage as appropriate based on response. When increasing the paltusotine dosage, do not exceed 2x the prior dose or 120 mg daily, whichever is less. Concomitant use may decrease paltusotine exposure. Paltusotine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce paltusotine overall exposure by 30%.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pasireotide: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pazopanib and pacritinib due to the risk for increased pazopanib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pazopanib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate, pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased pemigatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease pemigatinib exposure by more than 50%.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PENTobarbital: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Perampanel: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to pacritinib therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If pacritinib is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of pacritinib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of pacritinib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
PHENobarbital: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Phenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with phenytoin/fosphenytoin is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and pacritinib may decrease pimavanserin exposure and efficacy and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the exposure of pimavanserin by approximately 70%.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and pacritinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase pimozide exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Pimozide is a CYP1A2 substrate, pacritinib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of pirtobrutinib and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased pirtobrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, an empiric pirtobrutinib dosage increase is required. If the current dosage is 200 mg once daily, increase the dose to 300 mg; if the current dosage is 50 mg or 100 mg once daily, increase the dose by 50 mg. Pirtobrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inducers reduced pirtobrutinib overall exposure by 27% and 49%.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with posaconazole is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk for pacritinib-related adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase posaconazole exposure and carries an additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor, posaconazole is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and pralsetinib. Coadministration has an unpredictable effect on pralsetinib exposure which may result in decreased efficacy or increased toxicity. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the pralsetinib overall exposure by 45% while coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 1.8-fold.
Praziquantel: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of praziquantel and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease praziquantel exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for reduced response to praziquantel. Praziquantel is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. When praziquantel was administered after 13 days of treatment with a moderate CYP3A inducer, the mean praziquantel AUC was 77% lower than when praziquantel was given alone.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with pacritinib as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and pacritinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of pacritinib and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Progestins: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase propafenone exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Propafenone is a CYP1A2 substrate, pacritinib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and pacritinib may decrease quizartinib exposure and efficacy and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ranolazine and pacritinib is contraindicated; coadministration may alter the exposure of ranolazine resulting in decreased efficacy or increased toxicity. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ranolazine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Monitor for dopaminergic adverse effects during concurrent use of rasagiline and pacritinib. Coadministration may result in increased rasagiline concentrations. A dose reduction of rasagiline may be necessary. Rasagiline is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; pacritinib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with relacorilant is contraindicated due to the risk for increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk for pacritinib-related adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also decrease relacorilant exposure and reduce relacorilant efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and relacorilant is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Concomitant use of relugolix and pacritinib may increase relugolix exposure and the risk for relugolix-related adverse effects and carries and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, administer pacritinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate, pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. (Major) Concomitant use of relugolix and pacritinib may increase relugolix exposure and the risk for relugolix-related adverse effects and carries and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, administer pacritinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate, pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and repotrectinib. Coadministration may have an unpredictable effect on the repotrectinib overall exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or increased toxicity. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Revumenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased revumenib exposure and efficacy; concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Revumenib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ribociclib is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ribociclib is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
rifAMPin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with rifampin is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Rifapentine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with rifapentine is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of rilpivirine and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease rilpivirine exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, potentially reducing rilzabrutinib efficacy, and may increase pacritinib exposure, increasing the risk for pacritinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%; coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and rimegepant. Coadministration may have an unpredictable effect on the overall exposure of rimegepant resulting in decreased efficacy or increased toxicity. Rimegepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Ripretinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ripretinib with pacritinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the frequency of ripretinib dosing from 150 mg once daily to 150 mg twice daily; monitor for clinical response and tolerability. Resume once daily dosing of ripretinib 14 days after discontinuation of pacritinib. Coadministration is predicted to decrease the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite (DP-5439), which may decrease ripretinib anti-tumor activity. Ripretinib and DP-5439 are metabolized by CYP3A and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Drug interaction modeling studies suggest coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer may decrease ripretinib exposure by 56%.
risperiDONE: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and risperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with ritlecitinib is necessary and consider dose adjustments as needed for safety. Concomitant use may increase pacritinib exposure. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with ritonavir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of ritonavir may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with pacritinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration increased rosuvastatin exposure by 1.8-fold.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with pacritinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration increased rosuvastatin exposure by 1.8-fold.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and saquinavir is contraindicated due to the risk for increased pacritinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use may also have an unpredictable effect on saquinavir overall exposure leading to decreased efficacy or increased risk of adverse reactions. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, moderate CYP3A inducer, and P-gp inhibitor; saquinavir is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sebetralstat and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease sebetralstat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced sebetralstat overall exposure by 79%.
Secobarbital: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may reduce estrogen exposure. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of pacritinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens or intrauterine systems containing levonorgestrel may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on pacritinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of selpercatinib and pacritinib may decrease selpercatinib exposure and efficacy and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease selpercatinib exposure by 40% to 70%.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased selumetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selumetinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease selumetinib exposure by 38%.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and sertraline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and pacritinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of siponimod and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease siponimod exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP and those with CYP2C9*1/*3 and *2/*3 genotypes. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Across different CYP2C9 genotypes, a moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of siponimod by up to 52% according to in silico evaluation.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of pacritinib. Coadministration may have an unpredictable effect on overall sirolimus concentrations, resulting in decreased efficacy or increased risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of velpatasvir and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease velpatasvir exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of velpatasvir and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease velpatasvir exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. (Major) Concomitant use of voxilaprevir with pacritinib is not recommended due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of voxilaprevir, which may result in loss of antiviral efficacy. Voxilaprevir is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Solifenacin: (Major) Concomitant use of solifenacin and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease solifenacin exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. solifenacin is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and pacritinib; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with St. John's Wort is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if pacritinib must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
SUNItinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and sunitinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Suzetrigine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Concomitant use of tacrolimus and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease tacrolimus exposure and efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Tacrolimus is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased taletrectinib exposure and efficacy; concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and tamoxifen increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tazemetostat and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased tazemetostat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Telavancin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pacritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pacritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Monitor theophylline concentrations and watch for an increase in theophylline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; a theophylline dose reduction may be necessary. Theophylline is a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib with tipranavir is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. The exposure of tipranavir may also be altered with an unpredictable effect on overall exposure leading to decreased efficacy or increased risk of adverse reactions. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, moderate CYP3A inducer, and P-gp inhibitor; tipranavir is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
tiZANidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and pacritinib as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Tolterodine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and tolterodine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pacritinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; pacritinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP; pacritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If pacritinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with verapamil is necessary and consider dose adjustments as needed for safety. Concomitant use may increase pacritinib exposure. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of pacritinib and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Triptorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with tucatinib is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) An ubrogepant dosage adjustment may be necessary if coadministered with pacritinib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and efficacy or increase ubrogepant exposure and side effects. The net effect on overall ubrogepant exposure is unpredictable. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with pacritinib. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and pacritinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 69% and 73%, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 69% and 73%, respectively.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and vardenafil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and venetoclax. Concurrent use may have an unpredictable effect on the overall exposure of venetoclax resulting in decreased efficacy or increased toxicity. Venetoclax is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and venlafaxine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for pacritinib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with verapamil is necessary and consider dose adjustments as needed for safety. Concomitant use may increase pacritinib exposure. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of pacritinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of pacritinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Concomitant use of voclosporin and pacritinib may decrease voclosporin exposure and efficacy and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Voclosporin is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease voclosporin exposure by 70%. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and pacritinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and pacritinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and clarithromycin is contraindicated due to increased pacritinib exposure which increases the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease clarithromycin exposure and efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer, clarithromycin is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and pacritinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and voriconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased pacritinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use may also decrease voriconazole exposure and efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer, voriconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased voriconazole exposure by 77%.
Vorinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of voxelotor and pacritinib as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. The exposure of pacritinib may also be increased leading to increased risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with pacritinib is necessary as concurrent use may alter the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy or increased bleeding risk. The net effect on warfarin overall exposure is unpredictable. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A and CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of zanubrutinib and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased zanubrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase zanubrutinib dose to 320 mg twice daily and monitor response. Resume the previous dose of zanubrutinib if pacritinib is discontinued. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased zanubrutinib exposure by 44%.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased zidesamtinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased ziftomenib exposure and efficacy and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Zoliflodacin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of zoliflodacin and pacritinib is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased zoliflodacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zoliflodacin is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce zoliflodacin overall exposure by 41%.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Thrombocytopenia (34%; grade 3 or higher, 32%) and anemia (24%; grade 3 or higher, 22%) occurred in patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial. Additionally, neutropenia that resulted in a dosage reduction was reported in 2% of patients. Monitor complete blood counts (CBC) prior to and as and as clinically indicated during treatment. Therapy interruption, a dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop worsening thrombocytopenia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral edema
    General Information
    Peripheral edema was reported in 20% (grade 3 or higher, 1%) of patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea
    General Information
    Cough (8%; grade 3 or higher, 2%) and dyspnea (10%) occurred in patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness
    General Information
    Dizziness was reported in 15% (grade 3 or higher, 1%) of patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever was reported in 15% (grade 3 or higher, 1%) of patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    disseminated intravascular coagulation, hypotension, tumor flare
    General Information
    Signs and symptoms from myeloproliferative neoplasms may flare (tumor flare) following discontinuation of JAK inhibitors including pacritinib. Symptoms may include fever, respiratory distress, hypotension, disseminated intravascular coagulation, or multi-organ failure. If 1 or more of these occur after discontinuation, evaluate for and treat any intercurrent illness and consider restarting pacritinib. When discontinuing or interrupting therapy, consider tapering the dose gradually.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      disseminated intravascular coagulation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tumor flare
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    epistaxis
    General Information
    Epistaxis was reported in 12% (grade 3 or higher, 5%) of patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pruritus, rash
    General Information
    Pruritus was reported in 10% (grade 3 or higher, 2%) of patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily in a randomized trial. Rash has also been reported during postmarketing surveillance in patients treated with pacritinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    ocular hemorrhage
    General Information
    Conjunctival/ocular hemorrhage that resulted in a dosage reduction was reported in 2% of patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    bleeding
    General Information
    In patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial, serious bleeding occurred in 11% (grade 5, 2%) of patients who had a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less (n = 106) and 13% (grade 5, 2%) of patients who had a baseline platelet count of 50 X 109 cells/L or less (n = 47). Grade or higher bleeding events (defined as requiring transfusion or invasive intervention) occurred in 15% of patients with myelofibrosis who received pacritinib; additionally, fatal cerebral hemorrhage and meningorrhagia were each reported in less than 1% of patients. Perform coagulation testing (e.g., prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, thrombin time, and INR) prior to starting pacritinib and as clinically indicated during treatment. Monitor patients for signs and symptom of bleeding. Therapy interruption, a dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop bleeding; medically manage bleeding episodes as appropriate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Serious bacterial, mycobacterial, fungal, and viral infection may occur with pacritinib therapy. Monitor patients for signs and symptom of infection. Use active surveillance and prophylactic antibiotics according to clinical guidelines and treat infections promptly. Upper respiratory tract infection (10%) and pneumonia (6%) were reported in patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    QT prolongation has been reported with pacritinib therapy. Obtain a baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) prior to starting pacritinib and patients who develop QTc prolongation greater than 500 msec or greater than 60 msec from baseline as clinically indicated during treatment. Do not start pacritinib in patient with a baseline QTc greater than 480 milliseconds (msec). Correct serum electrolyte levels prior to and during pacritinib therapy as appropriate. Therapy interruption, a dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop QT prolongation. QTc prolongation was reported in 3.8% of patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial. There were no reported cases of torsade de pointes. QTc prolongation greater than 500 msec (1.4%) or greater than 60 msec from baseline (1.9%) occurred in pacritinib-treated patients in this trial. Additionally, the maximum mean change in QTcF from baseline was 11 (90% CI, 5 to 17) msec in patients with myelofibrosis who received the recommended dosage of pacritinib in a 24-week electrophysiology study (n = 54).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    heart failure
    General Information
    Heart failure was reported in 4% of patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    leukemia, new primary malignancy, skin cancer
    General Information
    New primary malignancy including squamous cell skin cancer (3%) and fatal acute myeloid leukemia (less than 1%) occurred in patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily (n = 106) in a randomized trial. Consider the benefits and risks for continuing pacritinib therapy in patients who develop a malignancy during therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      skin cancer
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Diarrhea has been reported with pacritinib therapy, including postmarketing reports of severe diarrhea leading to acute or subacute kidney injury and treatment discontinuation. Most cases occur during the first 8 weeks. Diarrhea (48%; grade 3 or higher, 4%), nausea (32%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), and vomiting (19%) occurred in patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis and a baseline platelet count of 100 X 109 cells/L or less who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily in a randomized trial. The median time to resolution of diarrhea was 2 weeks. Prescribe antidiarrheal medication (e.g., loperamide) upon initiation of pacritinib and treat diarrhea promptly at the first onset of symptoms (change in frequency or consistency of bowel movements). If diarrhea occurs, an interruption in therapy, a dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary; intensify the anti-diarrheal treatment regimen and administer fluid replacement for severe diarrhea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nephrotoxicity
    General Information
    Nephrotoxicity, specifically acute or subacute kidney injury (secondary to diarrhea), has been reported with postmarketing use of pacritinib.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Treatment with JAK inhibitors has been associated with hypoglycemia in individuals with diabetes mellitus. Hypoglycemia, considered a class effect, has also been reported during postmarketing surveillance in patients receiving pacritinib. During treatment with JAK inhibitors, consider increased blood glucose monitoring as clinically indicated in individuals with diabetes. Advise individuals to notify their health care provider if they develop signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Pacritinib is a Janus associated kinase-2 (JAK2) and FMS-like tyrosine kinase-3 (FLT3) inhibitor approved for the treatment of adult patients with intermediate- or high-risk primary or secondary (post-polycythemia vera or post-essential thrombocythemia) myelofibrosis with a platelet count below 50 X 109 cells/L. Concomitant use with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers is contraindicated. QT-interval prolongation has been reported with pacritinib therapy.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Pacritinib is a kinase inhibitor that works by blocking the signaling of cytokines and growth factors that are important for hematopoiesis and immune function. It has activity against wild-type Janus Associated Kinase 2 (JAK2), mutant JAK2V617F, FMS-like tyrosine kinase-3 (FLT3), interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase-1 (IRAK1), and activin A receptor, type 1/activin receptor like-kinase 2 (ACVR1/ALK2). Pacritinib inhibits additional cellular kinases, such as colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R). Myelofibrosis is associated with dysregulated JAK2 signaling. Pacritinib has higher inhibitory activity for JAK2 compared with JAK3 and TYK2 and does not inhibit JAK1 at therapeutic concentrations.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily, the steady-state mean Cmax level was 8.4 mg/L (coefficient of variation (CV), 32.4%) and the steady-state mean AUC(0-12h) value was 95.6 mg X hour/L (CV, 33.1%) in patients with myelofibrosis. The time to peak concentration (Tmax) was about 4 to 5 hours post-dose. Pacritinib pharmacokinetics (PK) demonstrate a less than dose-proportional increase. The recommended pacritinib dosage accumulates 386%; steady-state levels are achieved within 1 week. Administering a 200-mg oral dose of pacritinib with a high-fat meal resulted in no significant change in pacritinib PK values compared with the fasting state.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Following a dose of pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily for 14 days, the geometric mean AUC of total pacritinib decreased in subjects with moderate (Child-Pugh B) or severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment compared to subjects with normal hepatic impairment due to reduced plasma protein binding. The geometric mean AUC of unbound pacritinib was similar in healthy subjects compared to subjects with moderate hepatic impairment and increased by 23% in subjects with severe hepatic impairment. The ratio of pacritinib exposure, comparing exposure of unbound pacritinib in subjects with hepatic impairment versus normal hepatic function following pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily for 14 days, was 1.06 for the unbound Cmax and 1.05 for the unbound AUC in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment and 1.24 for the unbound Cmax and 1.23 for the unbound AUC in subjects with severe hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The Cmax and AUC values increased by about 30% in subjects with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 15 to 29 mL/min and eGFR less than 15 mL/min on hemodialysis compared with subjects who had an eGRF of 90 mL/min or higher. Cmax and AUC values were similar in subjects with an eGFR of 30 to 89 mL/min compared with subjects who had an eGRF of 90 mL/min or higher. eGRF was estimated using the modification of diet in renal disease (MDRD) study equation.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of pacritinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of pacritinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of pacritinib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of pacritinib.
  Text
  Pacritinib is administered orally. It is about 98.8% bound to plasma proteins. The median apparent steady-state volume of distribution was 229 L (range, 156 to 591 L), the mean apparent steady-state clearance was 2.09 L/hour (coefficient of variation (CV), 33.1%), and the mean effective half-life was 27.7 hours (CV, 17%) in patients with myelofibrosis who received pacritinib 200 mg PO twice daily. Pacritinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A; it forms 2 major metabolites (M1 and M2) that account for 9.6% and 10.5% of the parent drug exposure, respectively. Pacritinib is the major circulating component and accounts for the main pharmacological activity. After a single oral radiolabeled dose, 87% of the dose was recovered in the feces (0% unchanged) and 6% of the dose was recovered in the urine (0.12% unchanged).
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, CYP1A2, CYP2C19, P-gp, and BCRP
Pacritinib is a substrate of CYP3A and a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. It is also a moderate CYP2C19 and CYP3A inducer. In vitro, pacritinib is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), organic cation transporter (OCT)-1, and OCT2.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Recommended Prophylaxis
Prescribe antidiarrheal medication (e.g., loperamide) upon initiation of therapy; instruct patients to treat diarrhea at the first onset of symptoms (change in frequency or consistency of bowel movements) after starting pacritinib.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take pacritinib with or without food.
Swallow capsules whole; do not open, break, or chew capsules.
If a dose is missed, take the next dose at its scheduled time; do not take extra capsules to make up for the missed dose.
Taper or discontinue other kinase inhibitors (according to their prescribing information) prior to starting pacritinib.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    400 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    400 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild (Child-Pugh A) and moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment: No dose modification is recommended.
Severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment: The recommended dose of pacritinib is 100 mg twice daily; dose may be increased to 200 mg twice daily if treatment is not effective after 12 weeks with no safety concerns.
  Renal Impairment
  Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 30 to 89 mL/min: Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in mild to moderate renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.eGFR less than 30 mL/min: Use not recommended.
