=== Insulin Icodec (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5661)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Insulin icodec is a long-acting, once-weekly basal insulin analog indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Routes: subcutaneous; Common adult doses: Dosage Description

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, hypotension, erythema, injection site reaction, pruritus, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. hypoglycemia Insulin icodec is contraindicated during episodes of hypoglycemia (blood sugar less than 70 mg/dL). Symptoms of hypoglycemia may differ among individuals and change over...

Brand Names
  - Awiqli

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General Dosing Information:
Dose adjustment is not advised during acute illness or if the individual makes short-term changes in their physical activity level or usual diet. Consider other applicable adjustments, such as glucose intake or changes to other glucose lowering medications.
The Awiqli FlexTouch pen delivers doses in 10-unit increments and can deliver up to 700 units in a single injection.
One unit of insulin icodec corresponds to 1 international unit (IU) of human insulin.
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage for insulin-naive individuals
      Routes
        Heading
        Subcutaneous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          70 units subcutaneously once a week on the same day each week. Individualize and titrate dose based on individual metabolic needs, blood glucose monitoring results, and glycemic control goal.
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage for conversion from daily basal insulin therapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Subcutaneous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          Administer the first dose on the day after the last dose of daily basal insulin. Week 1: administer 1.5 times the total daily basal insulin dose multiplied by 7 (round to the nearest 10 units) given as insulin icodec subcutaneously once. Week 2: administer the previous total daily basal insulin dose multiplied by 7 (round to the nearest 10 units) given as insulin icodec subcutaneously once. Week 3 and beyond: the weekly subcutaneous insulin icodec dose can be titrated from the previous dosage based on the individual's metabolic needs, blood glucose monitoring results, and glycemic control goal.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Insulin icodec is contraindicated during episodes of hypoglycemia (blood sugar less than 70 mg/dL). Symptoms of hypoglycemia may differ among individuals and change over time in the same individual. Symptomatic hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in individuals with longstanding diabetes, diabetic nerve disease, use of medications that block the sympathetic nervous system (e.g. beta-blockers), or in individuals who experience recurrent hypoglycemia. The long-acting effect of insulin icodec may delay recovery from hypoglycemia compared with shorter-acting insulins. Serious hypoglycemia requiring hospitalization has occurred due to accidental mix-up between insulin icodec and other insulin products or once-weekly injectable antidiabetic medications, incorrect dose selection, and dosing frequency errors. Advise individuals to always check the product label before each injection to confirm they are using insulin icodec.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use insulin icodec with caution in people with renal impairment or renal failure since they may be at an increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent dosage adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use insulin icodec with caution in people with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure since they may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent dosage adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Geriatric adults are especially at risk for hypoglycemic episodes when using insulin. The initial dosing and dosing increments of any insulin product should be conservative in the geriatric adult. Hypoglycemia may be more difficult to recognize in the elderly. More frequent glucose monitoring is recommended, and the insulin dose is to be adjusted on an individual basis. Risk factors for hypoglycemia in the older adult include intensive insulin therapy, use of an excessive insulin dose, improper timing of insulin administration with regard to meals, injection of the wrong type of insulin, renal failure, severe liver disease, alcohol ingestion, defective counter-regulatory hormone release, missing meals/fasting, and gastroparesis.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Insulin is the drug of choice in pregnant individuals with diabetes. There are no data on the use of insulin icodec during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk for major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse effects. In animal studies, no developmental effects were observed at exposure approximately equal to a human dose of 230 units/week. In general, insulin requirements decline during the first trimester and increase during the second and third trimesters. Careful monitoring of insulin recipients is required throughout pregnancy. Optimizing glycemic control before conception and during pregnancy appears to improve maternal and fetal outcomes; the adverse effects of maternal hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia on the fetus have been well-documented. Careful glucose monitoring and management of patients with diabetes during labor and obstetric delivery are also required. Postpartum, maternal insulin requirements may need adjustment. Most experts, including the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecologists (ACOG) and the American Diabetes Association (ADA), recommend human insulin as the therapy of choice to maintain blood glucose as close to normal as possible in pregnant individuals with Type 1 or 2 diabetes mellitus, and, if diet therapy alone is not successful, for those patients with gestational diabetes; insulin does not cross the placenta.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Insulin icodec is considered compatible with breast-feeding. Available data from published literature demonstrate that exogenous human insulin is transferred into human milk. There are no published reports of adverse reactions from insulin in breastfed infants. There are no specific data on the presence of insulin icodec in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Insulin is degraded in the gastrointestinal tract; therefore, any insulin secreted into breast milk would not be absorbed by a breastfed infant. The American Diabetes Association encourages breast-feeding by individuals with pre-existing diabetes mellitus or gestational diabetes; accordingly, those on insulin therapy should be encouraged to breastfeed if no contraindications exist. Breast-feeding may decrease insulin requirements, despite the need for increased caloric intake. Careful observation of increased maternal caloric needs and maternal blood glucose concentrations are needed, especially in the first weeks postpartum. In postpartum individuals with pre-existing diabetes mellitus, insulin sensitivity increases with delivery of the placenta and then returns to pre-pregnancy levels over 1 to 2 weeks. For those taking insulin, particular attention should be directed to hypoglycemia prevention in the setting of breast-feeding and erratic mealtimes and sleep schedules.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Insulin is the drug of choice in pregnant individuals with diabetes. There are no data on the use of insulin icodec during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk for major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse effects. In animal studies, no developmental effects were observed at exposure approximately equal to a human dose of 230 units/week. In general, insulin requirements decline during the first trimester and increase during the second and third trimesters. Careful monitoring of insulin recipients is required throughout pregnancy. Optimizing glycemic control before conception and during pregnancy appears to improve maternal and fetal outcomes; the adverse effects of maternal hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia on the fetus have been well-documented. Careful glucose monitoring and management of patients with diabetes during labor and obstetric delivery are also required. Postpartum, maternal insulin requirements may need adjustment. Most experts, including the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecologists (ACOG) and the American Diabetes Association (ADA), recommend human insulin as the therapy of choice to maintain blood glucose as close to normal as possible in pregnant individuals with Type 1 or 2 diabetes mellitus, and, if diet therapy alone is not successful, for those patients with gestational diabetes; insulin does not cross the placenta.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Insulin icodec is considered compatible with breast-feeding. Available data from published literature demonstrate that exogenous human insulin is transferred into human milk. There are no published reports of adverse reactions from insulin in breastfed infants. There are no specific data on the presence of insulin icodec in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Insulin is degraded in the gastrointestinal tract; therefore, any insulin secreted into breast milk would not be absorbed by a breastfed infant. The American Diabetes Association encourages breast-feeding by individuals with pre-existing diabetes mellitus or gestational diabetes; accordingly, those on insulin therapy should be encouraged to breastfeed if no contraindications exist. Breast-feeding may decrease insulin requirements, despite the need for increased caloric intake. Careful observation of increased maternal caloric needs and maternal blood glucose concentrations are needed, especially in the first weeks postpartum. In postpartum individuals with pre-existing diabetes mellitus, insulin sensitivity increases with delivery of the placenta and then returns to pre-pregnancy levels over 1 to 2 weeks. For those taking insulin, particular attention should be directed to hypoglycemia prevention in the setting of breast-feeding and erratic mealtimes and sleep schedules.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Minor) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may alter blood sugar. Both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia have been described in patients treated with acetazolamide. This should be taken into consideration in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes mellitus who are receiving antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and for changes in glycemic control and be alert for evidence of an interaction.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) A lower insulin dose may be required when used in combination with alogliptin to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A lower insulin dose may be required when used in combination with alogliptin to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) A lower insulin dose may be required when used in combination with alogliptin to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose and for signs and symptoms of heart failure during concomitant pioglitazone and insulin use. Reduce the insulin dose by 10% to 25% if hypoglycemia occurs; adjust the insulin dose further based on glycemic response. Consider discontinuation of pioglitazone if heart failure occurs and manage according to current standards. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia and fluid retention which may lead to or exacerbate heart failure.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Androgens: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Bexarotene: (Moderate) Systemic bexarotene may enhance the action of insulin, resulting in hypoglycemia. Patients should be closely monitored while receiving bexarotene capsules in combination with insulin therapy; monitor for hypoglycemia and need for diabetic therapy adjustments. Hypoglycemia has not been associated with bexarotene monotherapy.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia were reported in diabetic patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Patients taking antidiabetic agents and receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood glucose levels and dosage adjustment of their medication.
Botulinum Equine Heptavalent Antitoxin: (Moderate) The botulism equine heptavalent antitoxin is formulated with 10% maltose which may interfere with some blood glucose monitoring systems, resulting in falsely elevated glucose readings. These falsely high readings may mask cases of true hypoglycemia or result in inappropriate administration of insulins. Health care providers are advised to review the blood glucose monitoring system and test strips to determine if they are appropriate for use with maltose-containing parenteral products.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Bumetanide: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for worsening glycemic control when bumetanide, furosemide, and torsemide are instituted. Bumetanide, furosemide, and torsemide may cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria in patients with diabetes mellitus, probably due to diuretic-induced hypokalemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between these drugs and all antidiabetic agents.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Captopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Minor) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may alter blood sugar. Both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia have been described in patients treated with acetazolamide. This should be taken into consideration in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes mellitus who are receiving antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and for changes in glycemic control and be alert for evidence of an interaction.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chloroquine: (Major) Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended when chloroquine and antidiabetic agents, including insulin, are coadministered. A decreased dose of the antidiabetic agent may be necessary as severe hypoglycemia has been reported in patients treated concomitantly with chloroquine and an antidiabetic agent.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
chlorproMAZINE: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Chromium: (Moderate) Chromium dietary supplements may lower blood glucose. As part of the glucose tolerance factor molecule, chromium appears to facilitate the binding of insulin to insulin receptors in tissues and to aid in glucose metabolism. Because blood glucose may be lowered by the use of chromium, patients who are on antidiabetic agents may need dose adjustments. Close monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Because cisapride can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to insulin and other antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood sugar regularly. The dosing of antidiabetic agents may require adjustment in patients who receive cisapride concomitantly.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
cloNIDine: (Minor) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when clonidine is given with antidiabetic agents. Since clonidine inhibits the release of catecholamines, clonidine may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Clonidine does not appear to impair recovery from hypoglycemia, and has not been found to impair glucose tolerance in diabetic patients.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) In patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving insulins, colesevelam increased serum triglyceride concentrations by 22% compared to placebo. Monitor patients for increase in triglyceride concentrations. Discontinue colesevelam if triglyceride concentrations are > 500 mg/dl or if hypertriglyceridemia-induced pancreatitis occurs.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Cyclosporine may cause hyperglycemia. Patients should be monitored for worsening of glycemic control if therapy with cyclosporine is initiated in patients receiving insulin.
Danazol: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) A lower insulin dose may be required when used in combination with saxagliptin to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. When saxagliptin was used in combination with insulin, the incidence of hypoglycemia was increased compared to a placebo used in combination with insulin.
Dasiglucagon: (Minor) Caution should be exercised when glucagon is used as a diagnostic aid for radiologic examination in patients taking insulin. Insulin reacts antagonistically towards glucagon. Monitor the patient receiving glucagon for a diagnostic procedure for the desired clinical effects. There is no concern when glucagon is used to treat severe hypoglycemia. If a patient receives glucagon due to severe hypoglycemia by a family member or caregiver, they should alert their health care provider so that insulin treatment may be adjusted, if needed.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Delafloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving disopyramide concomitantly with insulin for changes in glycemic control. Disopyramide may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of insulin.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Drospirenone: (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant use of a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist and insulin. Consider an insulin dosage reduction during initiation of a GLP-1, especially in patients with additional risk factors for hypoglycemia-related harm. Both medications reduce blood glucose and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Edetate Calcium Disodium, Calcium EDTA: (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together. (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Estramustine: (Minor) Estramustine is an estrogen-containing medication and may decrease glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should monitor their blood glucose levels frequently due to this potential pharmacodynamic interaction.
Estrogens: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Ethanol: (Major) Patients should be advised to avoid or limit alcohol ingestion when treated with insulin. Alcohol ingestion increases hypoglycemic risk. In some patients, hypoglycemia can be prolonged. Educate regarding the importance of glucose monitoring, as well as the signs, symptoms, and self-management of delayed hypoglycemia after drinking alcohol, especially when using insulin. Moderate alcohol intake does not have major detrimental effects on long-term blood glucose management in people with diabetes.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Etonogestrel: (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant use of a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist and insulin. Consider an insulin dosage reduction during initiation of a GLP-1, especially in patients with additional risk factors for hypoglycemia-related harm. Both medications reduce blood glucose and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Fenofibrate: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Fenofibric Acid: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and fluoxetine use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Fosphenytoin: (Minor) Fosphenytoin and other hydantoins have the potential to increase blood glucose and thus interact with antidiabetic agents pharmacodynamically. Monitor blood glucose for changes in glycemic control. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients.
Furosemide: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for worsening glycemic control when bumetanide, furosemide, and torsemide are instituted. Bumetanide, furosemide, and torsemide may cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria in patients with diabetes mellitus, probably due to diuretic-induced hypokalemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between these drugs and all antidiabetic agents.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should use dietary supplements of Garlic, Allium sativum with caution. Constituents in garlic might have some antidiabetic activity, and may increase serum insulin levels and increase glycogen storage in the liver. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control. Patients with diabetes should inform their health care professionals of their intent to ingest garlic dietary supplements. Some patients may require adjustment to their hypoglycemic medications over time. One study stated that additional garlic supplementation (0.05 to 1.5 grams PO per day) contributed to improved blood glucose control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus within 1 to 2 weeks, and had positive effects on total cholesterol and high/low density lipoprotein regulation over time. It is unclear if hemoglobin A1C is improved or if improvements are sustained with continued treatment beyond 24 weeks. Other reviews suggest that garlic may provide modest improvements in blood lipids, but few studies demonstrate decreases in blood glucose in diabetic and non-diabetic patients. More controlled trials are needed to discern if garlic has an effect on blood glucose in patients with diabetes. When garlic is used in foods or as a seasoning, or at doses of 50 mg/day or less, it is unlikely that blood glucose levels are affected to any clinically significant degree.
Gemfibrozil: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Glucagon: (Minor) Caution should be exercised when glucagon is used as a diagnostic aid for radiologic examination in patients taking insulin. Insulin reacts antagonistically towards glucagon. Monitor the patient receiving glucagon for a diagnostic procedure for the desired clinical effects. There is no concern when glucagon is used to treat severe hypoglycemia. If a patient receives glucagon due to severe hypoglycemia by a family member or caregiver, they should alert their health care provider so that insulin treatment may be adjusted, if needed.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea catechins have been shown to decrease serum glucose concentrations. Patients with diabetes mellitus taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored closely for hypoglycemia if consuming green tea products.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and hydroxychloroquine use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
HYDROXYprogesterone: (Minor) Progestins, like hydroxyprogesterone, can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant use of a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist and insulin. Consider an insulin dosage reduction during initiation of a GLP-1, especially in patients with additional risk factors for hypoglycemia-related harm. Both medications reduce blood glucose and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Indapamide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant use of a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist and insulin. Consider an insulin dosage reduction during initiation of a GLP-1, especially in patients with additional risk factors for hypoglycemia-related harm. Both medications reduce blood glucose and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant use of a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist and insulin. Consider an insulin dosage reduction during initiation of a GLP-1, especially in patients with additional risk factors for hypoglycemia-related harm. Both medications reduce blood glucose and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Lanreotide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when lanreotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Lanreotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with lanreotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Levonorgestrel: (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Levothyroxine: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Hypoglycemia, including symptomatic episodes, has been noted in post-marketing reports with linezolid in patients with diabetes mellitus receiving therapy with antidiabetic agents, such as insulin and oral hypoglycemic agents. Diabetic patients should be monitored for potential hypoglycemic reactions while on linezolid. If hypoglycemia occurs, discontinue or decrease the dose of the antidiabetic agent or discontinue the linezolid therapy. Linezolid is a reversible, nonselective MAO inhibitor and other MAO inhibitors have been associated with hypoglycemic episodes in diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents.
Liothyronine: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant use of a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist and insulin. Consider an insulin dosage reduction during initiation of a GLP-1, especially in patients with additional risk factors for hypoglycemia-related harm. Both medications reduce blood glucose and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and lithium use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Lithium may increase or decrease the blood glucose lowering effect of insulin.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant use of a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist and insulin. Consider an insulin dosage reduction during initiation of a GLP-1, especially in patients with additional risk factors for hypoglycemia-related harm. Both medications reduce blood glucose and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Lonapegsomatropin: (Moderate) Patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored closely during somatropin (recombinant rhGH) therapy. Antidiabetic drugs (e.g., insulin or oral agents) may require adjustment when somatropin therapy is instituted in these patients. Growth hormones, such as somatropin, may decrease insulin sensitivity, leading to glucose intolerance and loss of blood glucose control. Therefore, glucose levels should be monitored periodically in all patients treated with somatropin, especially in those with risk factors for diabetes mellitus.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Losartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin in patients receiving exogenous insulin therapy. In addition, healthcare providers are advised to discontinue insulin therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of exogenous insulin may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test by directly affecting pituitary growth hormone secretion and by transiently elevating growth hormone concentrations.
Mafenide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and sulfonamide use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) A lower insulin dose may be required when used in combination with saxagliptin to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. When saxagliptin was used in combination with insulin, the incidence of hypoglycemia was increased compared to a placebo used in combination with insulin. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
methazolAMIDE: (Minor) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may alter blood sugar. Both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia have been described in patients treated with acetazolamide. This should be taken into consideration in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes mellitus who are receiving antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and for changes in glycemic control and be alert for evidence of an interaction.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Methohexital: (Minor) The risk of developing hypothermia is increased when methohexital is used with hypothermia-producing agents such as ethanol, insulins, phenothiazines, or other general anesthetics.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Increased GI motility by metoclopramide may increase delivery of food to the intestines and increase blood glucose. The dosing of insulin may require adjustment in patients who receive metoclopramide concomitantly.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Metreleptin: (Moderate) Use caution when administering metreleptin to patients treated with concomitant insulins or insulin secretagogue therapy (i.e., sulfonylureas, nateglinide, repaglinide). In clinical evaluation of metreleptin, hypoglycemia occurred in 13% of patients with generalized lipodystrophy. Most reported cases occurred with concomitant insulin use, with or without oral antihyperglycemic agents. Closely monitor blood glucose in patients on concomitant insulin or insulin secretagogue therapy. Dosage adjustments to their antihyperglycemic medications may be necessary.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) In patients taking insulin or other antidiabetic agents, the signs and symptoms of acute metyrapone toxicity (e.g., symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency) may be aggravated or modified.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Moxifloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when niacin, niacinamide is instituted or discontinued. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. When used at daily doses of 750 to 2000 mg, niacin significantly lowers LDL cholesterol and triglycerides while increasing HDL cholesterol. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy.
Nicotine: (Minor) Nicotine may increase plasma glucose. Monitor blood sugar for needed insulin dosage adjustments in insulin-dependent diabetic patients whenever a change in either nicotine intake or smoking status occurs. In addition, the use of inhaled insulin is not recommended in patients who smoke. Smoking tobacco can alter the effect of inhaled insulin in several ways. First, nicotine activates neuroendocrine pathways (e.g., increases in circulating cortisol and catecholamine levels) and may increase plasma glucose. Second, tobacco smoking is known to aggravate insulin resistance. Finally, compared with non-smokers, insulin exposure after inhalation may be greater in patients who smoke. If inhaled insulin is used in this population, patients should be instructed to monitor blood glucose concentrations closely. If a change in smoking status or nicotine intake occur, patients should continue to monitor their blood glucose concentrations closely and clinicians should adjust the dose of insulin when indicated.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Norethindrone: (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Norgestrel: (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Octreotide: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving octreotide concomitantly with insulin or other antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control and adjust doses of these medications accordingly. Octreotide alters the balance between the counter-regulatory hormones of insulin, glucagon, and growth hormone, which may result in hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. The hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia which occurs during octreotide acetate therapy is usually mild but may result in overt diabetes mellitus or necessitate dose changes in insulin or other hypoglycemic agents. In patients with concomitant type1 diabetes mellitus, octreotide is likely to affect glucose regulation, and insulin requirements may be reduced. Symptomatic hypoglycemia, which may be severe, has been reported in type 1 diabetic patients. In Type 2 diabetes patients with partially intact insulin reserves, octreotide administration may result in decreases in plasma insulin levels and hyperglycemia.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and fluoxetine use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant use of a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist and insulin. Consider an insulin dosage reduction during initiation of a GLP-1, especially in patients with additional risk factors for hypoglycemia-related harm. Both medications reduce blood glucose and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Orlistat: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Oxandrolone: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Pegvisomant: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pegvisomant treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pegvisomant increases sensitivity to insulin by lowering the activity of growth hormone, and in some patients glucose tolerance improves with treatment. Patients with diabetes treated with pegvisomant and antidiabetic agents may be more likely to experience hypoglycemia.
Pentamidine: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in glycemic control during the use of pentamidine; dosage adjustments of insulin may be necessary. Pentamidine can be harmful to pancreatic cells. This effect may lead to hypoglycemia acutely, followed hyperglycemia with prolonged pentamidine therapy.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving pentoxifylline concomitantly with insulin for changes in glycemic control. Pentoxifylline may enhance the hypoglycemic action of insulin.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Phenothiazines: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Phenytoin: (Minor) Phenytoin and other hydantoins have the potential to increase blood glucose and thus interact with antidiabetic agents pharmacodynamically. Monitor blood glucose for changes in glycemic control. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose and for signs and symptoms of heart failure during concomitant pioglitazone and insulin use. Reduce the insulin dose by 10% to 25% if hypoglycemia occurs; adjust the insulin dose further based on glycemic response. Consider discontinuation of pioglitazone if heart failure occurs and manage according to current standards. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia and fluid retention which may lead to or exacerbate heart failure.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose and for signs and symptoms of heart failure during concomitant pioglitazone and insulin use. Reduce the insulin dose by 10% to 25% if hypoglycemia occurs; adjust the insulin dose further based on glycemic response. Consider discontinuation of pioglitazone if heart failure occurs and manage according to current standards. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia and fluid retention which may lead to or exacerbate heart failure.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose and for signs and symptoms of heart failure during concomitant pioglitazone and insulin use. Reduce the insulin dose by 10% to 25% if hypoglycemia occurs; adjust the insulin dose further based on glycemic response. Consider discontinuation of pioglitazone if heart failure occurs and manage according to current standards. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia and fluid retention which may lead to or exacerbate heart failure. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pramlintide: (Major) Reduce mealtime insulin doses, including premixed insulins, by 50% when starting pramlintide to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia; further reductions in insulin dose are dependent on individual patient response. Monitor blood glucose frequently, including pre- and post-meals and at bedtime. Always administer pramlintide and insulin as separate injections; do not mix pramlintide with any insulin.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Progesterone: (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Progestins: (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Promethazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Quinolones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) A lower insulin dose may be required when used in combination with saxagliptin to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. When saxagliptin was used in combination with insulin, the incidence of hypoglycemia was increased compared to a placebo used in combination with insulin.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for changes in diabetic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant use of a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist and insulin. Consider an insulin dosage reduction during initiation of a GLP-1, especially in patients with additional risk factors for hypoglycemia-related harm. Both medications reduce blood glucose and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate: (Moderate) Sodium polystyrene sulfonate should be used cautiously with other agents that can induce hypokalemia such as loop diuretics, insulins, or intravenous sodium bicarbonate. Because of differences in onset of action, sodium polystyrene sulfonate is often used with these agents. With appropriate monitoring, hypokalemia can be avoided.
Somapacitan: (Moderate) Patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored closely during somapacitan therapy. Antidiabetic drugs (e.g., insulin or oral agents) may require adjustment when somapacitan therapy is instituted in these patients. Growth hormones, such as somapacitan, may decrease insulin sensitivity, leading to glucose intolerance and loss of blood glucose control. Therefore, glucose levels should be monitored periodically in all patients treated with somapacitan, especially in those with risk factors for diabetes mellitus.
Somatrogon: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control if concomitant use of somatrogon and antidiabetic drugs is necessary; a dose adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be needed. Growth hormones, such as somatrogon, may decrease insulin sensitivity, leading to glucose intolerance and loss of blood glucose control.
Somatropin, rh-GH: (Moderate) Patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored closely during somatropin (recombinant rhGH) therapy. Antidiabetic drugs (e.g., insulin or oral agents) may require adjustment when somatropin therapy is instituted in these patients. Growth hormones, such as somatropin, may decrease insulin sensitivity, leading to glucose intolerance and loss of blood glucose control. Therefore, glucose levels should be monitored periodically in all patients treated with somatropin, especially in those with risk factors for diabetes mellitus.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia; monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for loss of blood glucose control if niacin therapy is added. (Minor) Use caution in administration of calcium EDTA to patients with diabetes mellitus who are receiving insulin therapy. Calcium EDTA chelates the zinc in selected exogenous insulins, thereby increasing the amount of insulin available to the body and decreasing the duration of the insulin dose. Alterations in blood glucose control may result. Diabetic patients receiving calcium EDTA may require adjustments in their insulin dosage.
sulfADIAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and sulfonamide use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and sulfonamide use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
sulfaSALAzine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and sulfonamide use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sulfonamides: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and sulfonamide use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sympathomimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Tacrolimus has been reported to cause hyperglycemia. Patients should be monitored for worsening of glycemic control if therapy with tacrolimus is initiated in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Tegaserod: (Moderate) Because tegaserod can enhance gastric emptying in patients with diabetes, blood glucose can be affected, which, in turn, may affect the clinical response to antidiabetic agents.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Testosterone: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Thioridazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Thyroid hormones: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control whenever there is a change in thyroid treatment. It may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic agents if thyroid hormones are added or discontinued. Thyroid hormones are important in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, the mobilization of glycogen stores, and protein synthesis. When thyroid hormones are added to existing diabetes therapy, the glucose-lowering effect may be reduced.
Timolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant use of a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist and insulin. Consider an insulin dosage reduction during initiation of a GLP-1, especially in patients with additional risk factors for hypoglycemia-related harm. Both medications reduce blood glucose and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Tobacco: (Major) Advise patients to avoid smoking tobacco while taking insulin. Tobacco smoking is known to aggravate insulin resistance. The cessation of nicotine therapy or tobacco smoking may result in a decrease in blood glucose. Blood glucose concentrations should be monitored more closely whenever a change in either nicotine intake or smoking status occurs; dosage adjustments in antidiabetic agents may be needed.
Torsemide: (Minor) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for worsening glycemic control when bumetanide, furosemide, and torsemide are instituted. Bumetanide, furosemide, and torsemide may cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria in patients with diabetes mellitus, probably due to diuretic-induced hypokalemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between these drugs and all antidiabetic agents.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and insulin use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Triamterene: (Minor) Triamterene can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. Patients receiving insulin should be closely monitored for signs indicating loss of diabetic control when therapy with triamterene is instituted. In addition, patients receiving insulin should be closely monitored for signs of hypoglycemia when therapy with any of these other agents is discontinued.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. (Minor) Triamterene can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. Patients receiving insulin should be closely monitored for signs indicating loss of diabetic control when therapy with triamterene is instituted. In addition, patients receiving insulin should be closely monitored for signs of hypoglycemia when therapy with any of these other agents is discontinued.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should monitor for worsening glycemic control when a phenothiazine is instituted.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when niacin, niacinamide is instituted or discontinued. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Niacin interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. When used at daily doses of 750 to 2000 mg, niacin significantly lowers LDL cholesterol and triglycerides while increasing HDL cholesterol. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of clarithromycin and insulin or other antidiabetic agents can result in significant hypoglycemia. Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction associated with insulin, including insulin icodec, and may be severe, potentially resulting in seizures, death, or impaired concentration and reaction time that may compromise activities such as driving or operating machinery. Level 3 hypoglycemia, severe hypoglycemia with cognitive impairment requiring external assistance for recovery, occurred in 0% to 1.4% of individuals during clinical trials. Level 2 hypoglycemia, defined as a glucose level below 54 mg/dL with or without associated symptoms, occurred in 8.9% to 50.9% across all clinical trials. The highest proportion of Level 2 hypoglycemia was observed during a clinical trial in which insulin icodec was used with insulin aspart, with or without antidiabetic medication. Individuals should not use insulin icodec during episodes of hypoglycemia, and clinicians should recognize that hypoglycemic symptoms may occur abruptly, vary between individuals, and be attenuated in individuals with longstanding diabetes, diabetic neuropathy, recurrent hypoglycemia, or concomitant use of sympatholytic agents such as beta-blockers. Because insulin icodec is a once-weekly basal insulin with a long acting effect, recovery from hypoglycemia may be delayed relative to shorter-acting insulins, and risk may increase with intensive glycemic targets, changes in meal pattern or physical activity, concomitant medications, and renal or hepatic impairment. Risk mitigation should include individual and caregiver education on recognition and management of hypoglycemia, along with more frequent blood glucose monitoring in those at elevated risk or with reduced symptomatic hypoglycemia awareness. Changes in an insulin regimen, including changes in insulin strength, manufacturer, type, injection site, or method of administration, may affect glycemic control and predispose individuals to hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Repeated injections into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis have been reported to result in hyperglycemia, whereas sudden transfer of injections to an unaffected area has been associated with hypoglycemia. To reduce these risks, changes in insulin regimen should be made under close medical supervision with increased blood glucose monitoring.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hypokalemia
    General Information
    All insulins, including insulin icodec, shift potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space and may lead to hypokalemia. Untreated hypokalemia may result in respiratory paralysis, ventricular arrhythmias, and death; accordingly, potassium levels should be monitored in individuals at risk for hypokalemia, such as those receiving potassium-lowering therapies or medications sensitive to serum potassium concentrations.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    peripheral neuropathy, retinopathy
    General Information
    Intensification or rapid improvement in glucose control during insulin initiation has been associated with transient, reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder, worsening of diabetic retinopathy, and acute painful peripheral neuropathy. However, long-term glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      retinopathy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, hypotension
    General Information
    Severe, life-threatening generalized anaphylactoid reactions, including anaphylaxis, generalized skin reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, hypotension, and shock, may occur with insulin, including insulin icodec. In clinical studies, hypersensitivity reactions were reported in 0.4% of insulin icodec-treated individuals overall and occurred in 0.6% of anti-insulin icodec antibody-positive individuals versus 0.4% of those without anti-insulin icodec antibodies. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, discontinue insulin icodec and treat per standard of care. Monitor until symptoms and signs resolve.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    lipodystrophy
    General Information
    Long-term use of insulin icodec can cause lipodystrophy at sites of repeated insulin injections, although in clinical trials lipodystrophy, lipohypertrophy, or lipoatrophy was not reported in treated individuals.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lipodystrophy
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    erythema, injection site reaction, pruritus, urticaria
    General Information
    Injection site reactions occurred in 1.8% of individuals receiving insulin icodec during clinical trials. Injection site reactions may include pruritus, bruising, erythema, pain, injection site hypersensitivity, swelling, urticaria, and injection site mass. In 3 clinical trials, injection site reaction occurred in 2.3% of insulin icodec-treated patients with anti-insulin icodec antibodies and in 2.4% of insulin icodec treated patients who did not develop anti-insulin icodec antibodies.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    weight gain
    General Information
    Weight gain can occur with insulin therapy, including insulin icodec, and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin. After 26 to 52 weeks of treatment in clinical trials, individuals with type 2 diabetes treated with insulin icodec gained an average weight of 1.4 to 2.8 kg.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    peripheral edema
    General Information
    Peripheral edema occurred in 1.2% of individuals with type 2 diabetes treated with insulin icodec.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    antibody formation
    General Information
    Across 3 clinical trials in adults with type 2 diabetes, anti-drug antibody formation was detected in some individuals treated with insulin icodec. At baseline, anti-insulin icodec antibodies were present in 1.6% of insulin-naive participants and 23.9% of insulin-experienced participants. During treatment, anti-insulin icodec antibodies were detected at least once in 79% of insulin-naive participants and 70.7% of insulin-experienced participants. Cross-reactive antibodies to human insulin were also observed, occurring at least once in 77.4% of insulin-naive participants and 67.3% of insulin-experienced participants. In one trial involving insulin-naive adults with type 2 diabetes, follow-up samples obtained at Week 31 were evaluated for in vitro neutralizing activity of anti-insulin icodec antibodies at the insulin receptor. Among 178 antibody-positive samples tested, 23 (12.9%) demonstrated neutralizing activity. Although individuals who developed anti-insulin icodec antibodies had modestly higher insulin icodec concentrations, with a geometric mean ratio increase of up to 1.2 versus those without treatment-emergent antibodies, no clinically meaningful effect on the safety or efficacy of insulin icodec was identified during the 26-week treatment period.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      antibody formation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Insulin icodec is a long-acting, once-weekly basal insulin analog indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Insulin icodec lowers blood glucose by activating insulin receptors to increase peripheral glucose uptake and reduce hepatic glucose production, with reversible albumin binding enabling a stable once-weekly basal effect. In 4 clinical trials in adults with type 2 diabetes, once-weekly insulin icodec improved glycemic control versus once-daily insulin glargine or insulin degludec in insulin-naive and basal-insulin treated patients and provided noninferior glycemic control in individuals receiving basal-bolus therapy with mealtime insulin aspart. Across these studies, insulin icodec produced statistically significant reductions in HbA1c in insulin-naive and basal-only populations, with similar or improved time in range in selected trials, while maintaining once-weekly basal dosing. The most common adverse effect with insulin icodec is hypoglycemia. Other commonly observed adverse reactions included hypersensitivity reactions, injection-site reactions, lipodystrophy, pruritus, rash, edema, and weight gain. Insulin icodec was FDA-approved in March 2026.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Endogenous insulin regulates carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism by several mechanisms; in general, insulin promotes the storage and inhibits the breakdown of glucose, fat, and amino acids. Insulin lowers glucose concentrations by facilitating the uptake of glucose in muscle and adipose tissue and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production (glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis). Insulin also regulates fat metabolism by enhancing the storage of fat (lipogenesis) and inhibiting the mobilization of fat for energy in adipose tissues (lipolysis and free fatty acid oxidation). Finally, insulin is involved in the regulation of protein metabolism by increasing protein synthesis and inhibiting proteolysis in muscle tissue.
 
Diabetes mellitus type 2 is caused by a combination of insulin deficiency and resistance. Biosynthetic insulin is used as replacement therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus to temporarily restore their ability to use fats, carbohydrates, and proteins, and to convert glycogen to fat. Insulin administration also enables these patients to replete their liver glycogen stores.
 
Proper insulin therapy, when needed, has beneficial effects besides glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM).
In the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) patients, 13 to 39 years of age with type 1 DM were studied. Those receiving 'intensive' therapy (3 or more injections per day or use of an insulin pump) had approximately a 60% reduction in the incidence of retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy compared to 'conventional' (2 injections/day) dosing but had a greater risk of serious hypoglycemia.
In the United Kingdom prospective diabetes study (UKPDS) patients 48 to 60 years of age with type 2 DM were studied. Those receiving 'intensive therapy' with either sulfonylureas or insulin experienced an approximate 25% reduction in the incidence of microvascular complications when compared to 'conventional therapy.' The fasting blood glucose goal in the intensive therapy groups was less than 6 mmol/L (less than 109 mg/dL); in the conventional therapy group, the fasting blood glucose goal was the best achievable with diet alone; drug therapy was added if fasting blood glucose was more than 15 mmol/L (273 mg/dL) or the patient experienced symptoms of hyperglycemia. Similar to DCCT, patients in the intensive therapy group had a greater incidence of hypoglycemia.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Subcutaneous Route
    Description
    Within the therapeutic dose range, systemic exposure to insulin icodec increases in proportion to the subcutaneous dose administered. Steady state concentrations are reached after 2 to 3 weeks of administration with a 1-time 50% additional dose for the first dose and after 3 to 4 weeks when initiating insulin icodec without a 1-time additional dose. In individuals with type 2 diabetes, after 8 weekly doses of 2.9 units/kg, a maximum insulin icodec concentration of 283 nmol/L was attained at a median of 15 hours (Tmax) postdose.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Hepatic impairment did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of insulin icodec after a single 1.5 units/kg subcutaneous dose.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Renal impairment, including end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis, had no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of insulin icodec after a single 1.5 units/kg subcutaneous dose.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender did not meaningfully affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of insulin icodec.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race did not meaningfully affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of insulin icodec.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight had a clear effect on insulin icodec exposure which decreased with increasing body weight (40 to 160 kg).
  Text
  Insulin icodec is administered subcutaneously. Insulin icodec has high affinity for serum albumin, corresponding to plasma protein binding of greater than 99% in human plasma. In vitro, there is no clinically relevant interaction between insulin icodec and fatty acids or other protein-bound drugs. Degradation of insulin icodec is similar to that of human insulin, and all metabolites formed are inactive. After subcutaneous administration, the half-life of insulin icodec is approximately 1 week, independent of dose.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Subcutaneous Administration
      Description
      Inject insulin icodec into the thigh, upper arm, or abdomen.
Rotate injection sites within the same region from 1 injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis. Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis.
Do not dilute or mix insulin icodec with any other insulin or solution.
Do not transfer insulin icodec from the FlexTouch pen into a syringe for administration.
Missed doses: Administer the missed dose as soon as possible within 4 days. Resume a once-weekly dosing schedule, one week from the day the missed dose was administered. If more than 4 days have passed, skip the missed dose and administer the next dose on the regularly scheduled day. Increase blood glucose monitoring with missed doses.
Storage of opened pen: May refrigerate [2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F)] or store at room temperature below 30 degrees C (86 degrees F). Do not freeze. Protect from heat and light. Once in use, pens must be discarded after 12 weeks, even if they still contain insulin.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    The insulin icodec pen delivers doses in 10-unit increments and can deliver up to 700 units in a single injection.
Insulin icodec is administered by subcutaneous injection only. Do not administer IM, IV, or via an insulin infusion pump.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever the solution and container permit. Insulin icodec should appear clear and colorless.
During changes to an individual's insulin regimen, increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring.
Use insulin icodec with caution in individuals with visual impairment that may rely on audible clicks to dial their dose.
Do not share prefilled-pens, even if the needle is changed. Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood-borne pathogens.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Text
  Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Individualize dosage based on careful monitoring of blood glucose and other clinical parameters.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Individualize insulin icodec dosage based on blood glucose and other clinical parameters. As with all insulin products, glucose monitoring should be intensified in patients with hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Individualize insulin icodec dosage based on blood glucose and other clinical parameters. As with all insulin products, glucose monitoring should be intensified in patients with renal impairment.
