=== Rosuvastatin/Ezetimibe (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5321)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Rosuvastatin; ezetimibe is an oral antilipemic combination.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 40 mg/day PO rosuvastatin and 10 mg/day PO ezetimibe.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated creatine kinase, fever, hematuria, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, myoglobinuria, myopathy, proteinuria, renal failure, rhabdomyolysis, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, jaundice, pancreatitis, asthenia, confusion, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, impaired cognition, insomnia, memory impairment, nightmares, paresthesias

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Rosuvastatin; ezetimibe is contraindicated in individuals with acute hepatic failure or decompensated hepatic cirrhosis.

Brand Names
  - ROSZET

Dosage Forms
  - Rosuvastatin Calcium 10mg, Ezetimibe 10mg Oral tablet
  - Rosuvastatin Calcium 20mg, Ezetimibe 10mg Oral tablet
  - Rosuvastatin Calcium 40mg, Ezetimibe 10mg Oral tablet
  - Rosuvastatin Calcium 5mg, Ezetimibe 10mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Rosuvastatin 20 or 40 mg once daily is considered to be a high-intensity statin (expected to lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) by 50% or more), while rosuvastatin 5 or 10 mg once daily is considered to be a moderate-intensity statin (expected to lower LDL-C by 30% to 49%).
An incremental LDL-C reduction of 25% is expected with statin plus ezetimibe combination therapy.
Choice of high- or moderate-intensity statin therapy is dependent on patient age, baseline LDL-C, ASCVD risk factors, and concomitant diseases. High-intensity therapy provides the greatest LDL-C reductions and is associated with a significantly greater reduction in ASCVD events vs. moderate-intensity therapy.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mg rosuvastatin; 10 mg ezetimibe to 40 mg rosuvastatin; 10 mg ezetimibe PO once daily. Monitor lipid concentrations as early as 2 weeks after initiation of therapy and adjust dose if needed. Max: 40 mg/day rosuvastatin; 10 mg/day ezetimibe. Dose depends on indication, LDL-C, and individual risk for cardiovascular events. Base dose on an equivalent dose of rosuvastatin and 10 mg ezetimibe for individuals switching from coadministration of a statin and ezetimibe. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Asian Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mg rosuvastatin; 10 mg ezetimibe PO once daily, initially. Monitor lipid concentrations as early as 2 weeks after initiation of therapy and adjust dose if needed. Max: 20 mg/day rosuvastatin; 10 mg/day ezetimibe. Consider the risk/benefit when treating Asian individuals not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg/day rosuvastatin; 10 mg/day ezetimibe. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of primary nonfamilial hypercholesterolemia (including hyperlipidemia and hyperlipoproteinemia) as an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C and homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia alone or as adjunct to other LDL-C lowering therapies to reduce LDL-C

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    acute hepatic failure, alcohol use disorder, decompensated hepatic cirrhosis, hepatic disease
    General Information
    Rosuvastatin; ezetimibe is contraindicated in individuals with acute hepatic failure or decompensated hepatic cirrhosis. Individuals with alcohol use disorder or those who consume substantial quantities of alcohol and/or have a history of hepatic disease (i.e., hepatitis) may be at increased risk for hepatic injury. Assess liver enzymes prior to treatment initiation and repeat as clinically indicated if signs or symptoms of hepatic injury occur. Promptly discontinue rosuvastatin; ezetimibe if hepatic injury with clinical symptoms, hyperbilirubinemia, or jaundice occurs. Increases in hepatic transaminases have been reported with rosuvastatin; ezetimibe. In most cases, increases in hepatic transaminases occurred soon after initiation, were transient, were not associated with symptoms, and resolved or improved on continued therapy or after temporary discontinuation of therapy. If increases in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) of 3 times the upper limit of normal or more persist, consider discontinuing rosuvastatin; ezetimibe therapy. There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in individuals taking statins, including rosuvastatin; ezetimibe.
    Headline
    amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Asian patients, carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A deficiency, carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency, diabetes mellitus, electrolyte imbalance, females, geriatric, hypothyroidism, hypovolemia, infection, major surgery, myasthenia gravis, myopathy, renal failure, renal impairment, seizure disorder, sepsis, shock, substance abuse disorder, trauma
    General Information
    Risk factors for the development of statin-associated muscle symptoms (SAMS), such as myopathy, immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy, and rhabdomyolysis, include geriatric adults (age 65 years or greater), females, endocrine disease (e.g., diabetes mellitus, uncontrolled or untreated hypothyroidism), vitamin D deficiency, electrolyte imbalance, renal impairment, renal failure, hepatic disease/impairment, neuromuscular disease/metabolic muscle disorder (e.g., amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A deficiency, carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency), frailty, low body weight/body mass, Asian patients, infection, personal or family history of statin or other lipid-lowering therapy intolerance, SAMS, or muscle symptoms to other lipid-lowering therapy, preexisting myopathy (including congenital myopathies), alcohol or substance abuse disorder (e.g., amphetamine, cocaine, heroin), major surgery, autoimmune disorders, genetic variants involved in statin metabolism, concomitant use with certain drugs (including other lipid lowering therapies), and higher statin dosage. Discontinue rosuvastatin; ezetimibe if markedly elevated creatine kinase concentrations occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. Temporarily discontinue rosuvastatin; ezetimibe in individuals experiencing an acute or serious condition at high risk of developing renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis (e.g., sepsis, shock, severe hypovolemia, major surgery, trauma, severe metabolic disorders, severe endocrine disease, severe electrolyte imbalance, or uncontrolled seizure disorder). A dosage adjustment is recommended in Asian patients and individuals with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2). Use rosuvastatin; ezetimibe with caution in individuals with myasthenia gravis. Exacerbation of myasthenia gravis, including ocular myasthenia gravis, has been reported during treatment with statins, including rosuvastatin; ezetimibe. Individuals with myasthenia gravis may also have a higher risk of myopathy. Instruct individuals to promptly report unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness, especially if accompanied by malaise or fever.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Discontinue rosuvastatin; ezetimibe when pregnancy is recognized. Alternatively, consider the ongoing therapeutic needs of the individual, particularly those at high risk for cardiovascular events during pregnancy, such as individuals with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) or familial hypercholesterolemia. Rosuvastatin may cause fetal harm based on the mechanism of action. Rosuvastatin decreases the synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol. Cholesterol and other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway are essential components for fetal development, including synthesis of steroids and cell membranes.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) completed a review of data from case series, prospective and retrospective observational cohort studies over decades of statin use in pregnant individuals and concluded that these studies have not identified a drug-associated risk of major congenital malformations associated with statin use during pregnancy. In a Medicaid cohort linkage study (n = 1,152) of statin-exposed pregnant individuals, no significant teratogenic effects were observed following statin use during the first trimester of pregnancy after adjusting for potential confounders (i.e., maternal age, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obesity, alcohol use, tobacco use); the relative risk (RR) of congenital malformations was 1.07 (95% confidence interval (CI), 0.85 to 1.37). In addition, after accounting for confounders, there were no statistically significant increases in organ-specific malformations. In the study, statin treatment was started prior to pregnancy and was discontinued within the first trimester after pregnancy was detected in a majority of individuals. In another cohort study of 469 individuals who were dispensed statins during pregnancy, it was determined that there was no increase in congenital anomalies after adjustment for maternal age and comorbidities; however, statin use was associated with an increased risk of preterm labor (RR, 1.99 [95% CI, 1.46 to 2.71]) and low birth weight (RR, 1.51 [95% CI, 1.05 to 2.16]). In a published, retrospective cohort study of 281 statin-exposed pregnant individuals, those on statin therapy had a miscarriage rate of 25% compared to 21% for pregnant individuals not on statin therapy (n = 2,643); adjusted hazard ratio was 1.64 (95% CI, 1.1 to 2.46). The FDA also re-reviewed non-clinical, animal data statin development programs and concluded that statins have a limited potential to cause malformations or embryo-fetal lethality, and limited potential to affect nervous system development during embryo-fetal development during the pre- and post-natal period. Decreased fetal body weight, delayed ossification, and decreased pup survival were observed in pregnant rats administered rosuvastatin doses 10 to 12 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). In pregnant rabbits administered rosuvastatin doses equivalent to the MRHD of 40 mg/day, a decrease in fetal viability and maternal mortality was observed. Rosuvastatin has been shown to cross the placenta in both rats and rabbits. There are insufficient data on the use of ezetimibe during pregnancy to evaluate a drug-associated risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes. Ezetimibe was not teratogenic when orally administered to pregnant rats and rabbits at doses that were 10 to 150 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). An increase in the incidence of common fetal skeletal findings (extra pair of thoracic ribs, unossified cervical vertebral centra, shortened ribs) was observed in pregnant rats that received 10 times the MRHD of ezetimibe. In pregnant rabbits at doses 150 times MRHD, an increased incidence of extrathoracic ribs was reported. Placental transfer studies found the fetal-maternal plasma exposure for total ezetimibe (conjugated and unconjugated ezetimibe) to be 1.5 for rats and 0.03 for rabbits on gestation day 20 and 22, respectively. When ezetimibe and a statin were coadministered to rats and rabbits during organogenesis, reproductive findings were found to occur at lower doses with combination therapy compared to either agent administered alone. Overall, available data have not identified a drug-associated risk of major congenital malformations, but published data are insufficient to determine if there is a drug-associated risk of miscarriage. Temporary discontinuation of lipid-lowering therapy, such as rosuvastatin; ezetimibe, should have minimal impact on the long-term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia, as atherosclerosis is a chronic process.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with statins. Statins may cause fetal harm based on their mechanism of action. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking a statin. In general, those who plan to become pregnant should stop statin therapy 1 to 2 months before pregnancy is attempted, or as soon as pregnancy is discovered, taking into consideration the therapeutic needs of the individual.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking rosuvastatin; ezetimibe. Limited data indicate that rosuvastatin is excreted into human milk. There are no data on the effects of rosuvastatin on the breastfed child or its effects on milk production. In a single case report of lactating individuals taking rosuvastatin 40 mg PO daily, the rosuvastatin milk concentration ranged from 21.9 to 22.8 nanograms/mL over 3 days at 3, 3.8, or 21 hours after administration; rosuvastatin serum concentration 23 hours after intake was 18 nanograms/mL. Cholesterol and other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway are essential components for infant growth and development, including synthesis of steroids and cell membranes. Statins decrease the synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway and may cause harm to the breastfed child. Some guidelines recommend avoidance of ezetimibe during breast-feeding due to a lack of data. However, ezetimibe is highly protein bound with a low oral bioavailability, likely making the risk to the breastfed child low. Serum concentrations in infants, as predicted by a pharmacokinetic model, are much lower than in adults.  If lipid-lowering therapy is necessary during breast-feeding, a nonabsorbable resin such as cholestyramine, colesevelam, or colestipol should be considered. These agents do not enter the bloodstream and thus will not be excreted during lactation. However, resins bind fat-soluble vitamins and prolonged use may result in deficiencies of these vitamins in breast-feeding individuals and breastfed child.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Discontinue rosuvastatin; ezetimibe when pregnancy is recognized. Alternatively, consider the ongoing therapeutic needs of the individual, particularly those at high risk for cardiovascular events during pregnancy, such as individuals with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) or familial hypercholesterolemia. Rosuvastatin may cause fetal harm based on the mechanism of action. Rosuvastatin decreases the synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol. Cholesterol and other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway are essential components for fetal development, including synthesis of steroids and cell membranes.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) completed a review of data from case series, prospective and retrospective observational cohort studies over decades of statin use in pregnant individuals and concluded that these studies have not identified a drug-associated risk of major congenital malformations associated with statin use during pregnancy. In a Medicaid cohort linkage study (n = 1,152) of statin-exposed pregnant individuals, no significant teratogenic effects were observed following statin use during the first trimester of pregnancy after adjusting for potential confounders (i.e., maternal age, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obesity, alcohol use, tobacco use); the relative risk (RR) of congenital malformations was 1.07 (95% confidence interval (CI), 0.85 to 1.37). In addition, after accounting for confounders, there were no statistically significant increases in organ-specific malformations. In the study, statin treatment was started prior to pregnancy and was discontinued within the first trimester after pregnancy was detected in a majority of individuals. In another cohort study of 469 individuals who were dispensed statins during pregnancy, it was determined that there was no increase in congenital anomalies after adjustment for maternal age and comorbidities; however, statin use was associated with an increased risk of preterm labor (RR, 1.99 [95% CI, 1.46 to 2.71]) and low birth weight (RR, 1.51 [95% CI, 1.05 to 2.16]). In a published, retrospective cohort study of 281 statin-exposed pregnant individuals, those on statin therapy had a miscarriage rate of 25% compared to 21% for pregnant individuals not on statin therapy (n = 2,643); adjusted hazard ratio was 1.64 (95% CI, 1.1 to 2.46). The FDA also re-reviewed non-clinical, animal data statin development programs and concluded that statins have a limited potential to cause malformations or embryo-fetal lethality, and limited potential to affect nervous system development during embryo-fetal development during the pre- and post-natal period. Decreased fetal body weight, delayed ossification, and decreased pup survival were observed in pregnant rats administered rosuvastatin doses 10 to 12 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). In pregnant rabbits administered rosuvastatin doses equivalent to the MRHD of 40 mg/day, a decrease in fetal viability and maternal mortality was observed. Rosuvastatin has been shown to cross the placenta in both rats and rabbits. There are insufficient data on the use of ezetimibe during pregnancy to evaluate a drug-associated risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes. Ezetimibe was not teratogenic when orally administered to pregnant rats and rabbits at doses that were 10 to 150 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). An increase in the incidence of common fetal skeletal findings (extra pair of thoracic ribs, unossified cervical vertebral centra, shortened ribs) was observed in pregnant rats that received 10 times the MRHD of ezetimibe. In pregnant rabbits at doses 150 times MRHD, an increased incidence of extrathoracic ribs was reported. Placental transfer studies found the fetal-maternal plasma exposure for total ezetimibe (conjugated and unconjugated ezetimibe) to be 1.5 for rats and 0.03 for rabbits on gestation day 20 and 22, respectively. When ezetimibe and a statin were coadministered to rats and rabbits during organogenesis, reproductive findings were found to occur at lower doses with combination therapy compared to either agent administered alone. Overall, available data have not identified a drug-associated risk of major congenital malformations, but published data are insufficient to determine if there is a drug-associated risk of miscarriage. Temporary discontinuation of lipid-lowering therapy, such as rosuvastatin; ezetimibe, should have minimal impact on the long-term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia, as atherosclerosis is a chronic process.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking rosuvastatin; ezetimibe. Limited data indicate that rosuvastatin is excreted into human milk. There are no data on the effects of rosuvastatin on the breastfed child or its effects on milk production. In a single case report of lactating individuals taking rosuvastatin 40 mg PO daily, the rosuvastatin milk concentration ranged from 21.9 to 22.8 nanograms/mL over 3 days at 3, 3.8, or 21 hours after administration; rosuvastatin serum concentration 23 hours after intake was 18 nanograms/mL. Cholesterol and other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway are essential components for infant growth and development, including synthesis of steroids and cell membranes. Statins decrease the synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway and may cause harm to the breastfed child. Some guidelines recommend avoidance of ezetimibe during breast-feeding due to a lack of data. However, ezetimibe is highly protein bound with a low oral bioavailability, likely making the risk to the breastfed child low. Serum concentrations in infants, as predicted by a pharmacokinetic model, are much lower than in adults.  If lipid-lowering therapy is necessary during breast-feeding, a nonabsorbable resin such as cholestyramine, colesevelam, or colestipol should be considered. These agents do not enter the bloodstream and thus will not be excreted during lactation. However, resins bind fat-soluble vitamins and prolonged use may result in deficiencies of these vitamins in breast-feeding individuals and breastfed child.

Interactions
Acalabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with acalabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and acalabrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Acoramidis: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with acoramidis. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with adagrasib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and adagrasib is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with amiodarone. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and amiodarone is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter OATP1B1/3 and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Antacids: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid, such as oral sodium bicarbonate. Simultaneous coadministration with an antacid has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and atazanavir. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 3.1-fold and 3.4-fold when atazanavir is boosted with ritonavir and cobicistat, respectively.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and atazanavir. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 3.1-fold and 3.4-fold when atazanavir is boosted with ritonavir and cobicistat, respectively. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted atazanavir or 20 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted darunavir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 3.4-fold and 1.9-fold when administered with cobicistat-boosted atazanavir and cobicistat-boosted darunavir, respectively.
Belumosudil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and belumosudil. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 5 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 4.6-fold.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with berotralstat. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and berotralstat is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with lenacapavir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and lenacapavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Bortezomib: (Minor) Monitor patients for the development of peripheral neuropathy when receiving bortezomib in combination with other drugs that can cause peripheral neuropathy like HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors; the risk of peripheral neuropathy may be additive.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with brigatinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and brigatinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate. Simultaneous coadministration with an antacid has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate. Simultaneous coadministration with an antacid has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate. Simultaneous coadministration with an antacid has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate. Simultaneous coadministration with an antacid has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate. Simultaneous coadministration with an antacid has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate. Simultaneous coadministration with an antacid has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Capecitabine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with capecitabine. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and capecitabine is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and capmatinib. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with ceritinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and ceritinib is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) The oral absorption of ezetimibe may be decreased by the concomitant administration of the bile acid sequestrants, such as cholestyramine. The incremental LDL-cholesterol reduction expected to occur by adding ezetimibe to bile acid sequestrant therapy may be reduced by this interaction. To limit a potential interaction, ezetimibe should be administered at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. In a study of 40 hypercholesterolemic adult subjects, concomitant cholestyramine (4 grams PO twice daily) administration decreased the mean AUC values of total ezetimibe (ezetimibe plus ezetimibe-glucuronide) and ezetimibe by approximately 55% and 80%, respectively.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Use HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors with caution with concomitant drugs that may decrease the levels or activity of endogenous steroids, such as cimetidine. Evaluate patients with signs and symptoms of endocrine dysfunction appropriately. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors interfere with cholesterol synthesis and theoretically might blunt adrenal and/or gonadal steroid production.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter OATP1B1/3 and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with clopidogrel. Concurrent use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.4-fold and 2-fold in patients receiving 75 mg and 300 mg of clopidogrel, respectively.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted atazanavir or 20 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted darunavir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 3.4-fold and 1.9-fold when administered with cobicistat-boosted atazanavir and cobicistat-boosted darunavir, respectively.
Colchicine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of colchicine and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) may increase the risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially following therapy initiation and upward dose titration. The use of low dose colchicine may further reduce the risk for myopathy.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) The oral absorption of ezetimibe may be decreased by the concomitant administration of the bile acid sequestrants; the incremental LDL-cholesterol reduction expected to occur by adding ezetimibe to bile acid sequestrant therapy may be reduced by this interaction. To limit a potential interaction, ezetimibe should be administered at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. In a study of 40 hypercholesterolemic adult subjects, concomitant cholestyramine (4 grams PO twice daily) administration decreased the mean AUC values of total ezetimibe (ezetimibe plus ezetimibe-glucuronide) and ezetimibe by approximately 55% and 80%, respectively. A similar effect might be expected to occur with the concomitant administration of colesevelam with ezetimibe; however, this potential interaction has not been studied.
Colestipol: (Moderate) The oral absorption of ezetimibe may be decreased by the concomitant administration of the bile acid sequestrants; the incremental LDL-cholesterol reduction expected to occur by adding ezetimibe to bile acid sequestrant therapy may be reduced by this interaction. To limit a potential interaction, ezetimibe should be administered at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. In a study of 40 hypercholesterolemic adult subjects, concomitant cholestyramine (4 grams PO twice daily) administration decreased the mean AUC values of total ezetimibe (ezetimibe plus ezetimibe-glucuronide) and ezetimibe by approximately 55% and 80%, respectively. A similar effect might be expected to occur with the concomitant administration of colestipol with ezetimibe; however, this potential interaction has not been studied.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and cyclosporine. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 5 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 7.1-fold. (Major) Cyclosporine may significantly increase ezetimibe serum concentrations. In addition, ezetimibe can increase cyclosporine serum concentrations. In a study of twelve healthy subjects, daily administration of 20 mg ezetimibe for 8 days and a single dose of 100 mg cyclosporine on day 7 resulted in a mean 15% increase in cyclosporine AUC (up to 51%) compared to a single dose of 100 mg cyclosporine alone. In a study of eight post-renal transplant patients with mildly impaired or normal renal function (CrCl > 50 mL/min), stable doses of cyclosporine (75 to 150 mg twice daily) increased the mean AUC and Cmax values of total ezetimibe 3.4-fold (range 2.3-fold to 7.9-fold) and 3.9-fold (range 3-fold to 4.4-fold), respectively, compared to a historical healthy control population (n=17). In a different study, a renal transplant patient with severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance of 13.2 mL/min/1.73 m2) who was receiving multiple medications, including cyclosporine, demonstrated a 12-fold greater exposure to total ezetimibe compared to healthy subjects. The degree of increase in ezetimibe exposure may be greater in patients with severe renal insufficiency. In patients treated with cyclosporine, the potential effects of the increased exposure to ezetimibe from concomitant use should be carefully weighed against the antilipemic benefits provided by ezetimibe. Patients who take cyclosporine concurrently with ezetimibe should be closely monitored for serum cyclosporine concentrations and for potential adverse effects of ezetimibe and cyclosporine.
Danicopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and danicopan. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
DAPTOmycin: (Moderate) Consider temporary discontinuation of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors during daptomycin treatment. If concomitant use is necessary monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis as both medications have been associated with these adverse effects.
Darolutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and darolutamide. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 5 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 5.2-fold.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 20 mg if darunavir is boosted with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.9- and 1.5-fold when darunavir is boosted with cobicistat and ritonavir, respectively.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted atazanavir or 20 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted darunavir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 3.4-fold and 1.9-fold when administered with cobicistat-boosted atazanavir and cobicistat-boosted darunavir, respectively. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 20 mg if darunavir is boosted with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.9- and 1.5-fold when darunavir is boosted with cobicistat and ritonavir, respectively.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted atazanavir or 20 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted darunavir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 3.4-fold and 1.9-fold when administered with cobicistat-boosted atazanavir and cobicistat-boosted darunavir, respectively. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 20 mg if darunavir is boosted with cobicistat. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.9- and 1.5-fold when darunavir is boosted with cobicistat and ritonavir, respectively.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with disulfiram. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and disulfiram is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Elacestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with elacestrant. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and elacestrant is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant administration increased overall exposure of rosuvastatin by 1.2 fold.
Elafibranor: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy if concomitant use of elafibranor and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is necessary. Both medications have been associated with muscle injury and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in rosuvastatin efficacy during concomitant use with elagolix and adjust the rosuvastatin dose as appropriate. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 40%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in rosuvastatin efficacy during concomitant use with elagolix and adjust the rosuvastatin dose as appropriate. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 40%.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and elbasvir. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and grazoprevir. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with elexacaftor. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter OATP1B1/3 and elexacaftor is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and ivacaftor is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with eltrombopag. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.6-fold. (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for adverse reactions if eltrombopag and ezetimibe are coadministered. Eltrombopag is an inhibitor of the transporter OATP1B1. Drugs that are substrates for this transporter, such as ezetimibe, may exhibit an increase in systemic exposure if coadministered with eltrombopag.
Eluxadoline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with eluxadoline. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted atazanavir or 20 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted darunavir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 3.4-fold and 1.9-fold when administered with cobicistat-boosted atazanavir and cobicistat-boosted darunavir, respectively. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when elvitegravir is administered with rosuvastatin as there is a potential for decreased rosuvastatin concentrations. Alternatively, when elvitegravir is boosted with cobicistat, the concentration of rosuvastatin may be increased due to inhibition of OATP by cobicistat. In one pharmacokinetic study, the Cmax and AUC of rosuvastatin were increased by 89% and 38%, respectively, when given concurrently with cobicistat and elvitegravir. Patients may experience a decreased antilipemic effect elvitegravir and rosuvastatin are coadministered. If elvitegravir is boosted with cobicistat, patients may be at increased risk for side effects of rosuvastatin. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of CYP2C9, while elvitegravir is a CYP2C9 inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted atazanavir or 20 mg in those receiving cobicistat-boosted darunavir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 3.4-fold and 1.9-fold when administered with cobicistat-boosted atazanavir and cobicistat-boosted darunavir, respectively. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when elvitegravir is administered with rosuvastatin as there is a potential for decreased rosuvastatin concentrations. Alternatively, when elvitegravir is boosted with cobicistat, the concentration of rosuvastatin may be increased due to inhibition of OATP by cobicistat. In one pharmacokinetic study, the Cmax and AUC of rosuvastatin were increased by 89% and 38%, respectively, when given concurrently with cobicistat and elvitegravir. Patients may experience a decreased antilipemic effect elvitegravir and rosuvastatin are coadministered. If elvitegravir is boosted with cobicistat, patients may be at increased risk for side effects of rosuvastatin. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of CYP2C9, while elvitegravir is a CYP2C9 inducer.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and enasidenib. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 3.4-fold.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with encorafenib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of OATP1B1/3 and BCRP; encorafenib is an OATP1B1/3 and BCRP inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Erythromycin: (Minor) Monitor for a reduction in rosuvastatin efficacy if concomitant use with erythromycin is necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to reduce rosuvastatin overall exposure by 20%.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.1 to 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of norgestrel. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of norgestrel, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention. (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Febuxostat: (Moderate) Do not exceed a rosuvastatin dose of 20 mg once daily if concomitant use of febuxostat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Coadministration with febuxostat increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 1.9-fold.
Fenofibrate: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects. (Minor) If cholelithiasis occurs or is suspected during concomitant use, avoid ezetimibe with fenofibric acid. Both medications increase cholesterol excretion into the bile and may increase the risk for cholelithiasis.
Fenofibric Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects. (Minor) If cholelithiasis occurs or is suspected during concomitant use, avoid ezetimibe with fenofibric acid. Both medications increase cholesterol excretion into the bile and may increase the risk for cholelithiasis.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with fluconazole. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and fluconazole is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Fluorouracil, 5-FU: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with fluorouracil. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and fluorouracil is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with fluoxetine. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and fluoxetine is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Fluvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with fluvastatin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and fluvastatin is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with fluvoxamine. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and fluvoxamine is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and fostamatinib. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 20 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2-fold.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with fostemsavir. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Gemfibrozil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and gemfibrozil. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.9-fold. (Major) The safety and effectiveness of ezetimibe when coadministered with gemfibrozil have not been established. Fibrates may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. Coadministration of ezetimibe with gemfibrozil is not recommended. In a preclinical study in dogs, ezetimibe increased cholesterol in the gallbladder bile. The incidence rates for cholecystectomy have been reported as 0.6% for fenofibrate monotherapy and 1.7% for combination therapy (ezetimibe plus fenofibrate), respectively. According to the manufacturer, the number of patients exposed to combination therapy versus fenofibrate or ezetimibe monotherapy has been inadequate to assess gallbladder disease risk. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. In a pharmacokinetic study, concomitant fenofibrate or gemfibrozil administration increased total ezetimibe concentrations by approximately 1.5- or 1.7-fold, respectively. However, ezetimibe does not affect the pharmacokinetics of fenofibrate or the bioavailability of gemfibrozil.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and gilteritinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and glecaprevir. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.2-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and pibrentasvir. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with ibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and ibrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Imlunestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with itraconazole. Concomitant use has been shown to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by up to 1.4-fold.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and ivacaftor is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter OATP1B1/3 and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Lanthanum Carbonate: (Major) To limit absorption problems, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ("statins") should not be taken within 2 hours of dosing with lanthanum carbonate. Oral drugs known to interact with cationic antacids, like statin cholesterol treatments, may also be bound by lanthanum carbonate. Separate the times of administration appropriately. Monitor the patient's lipid profile to ensure the appropriate response to statin therapy is obtained.
Lazertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with lazertinib. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and ledipasvir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis.
Leflunomide: (Major) Consider reducing the dose of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ("Statins" including atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, or simvastatin) during use of leflunomide and monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of myopathy. For a patient taking leflunomide, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily. Patients should be advised to report promptly unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever. Following oral administration, leflunomide is metabolized to an active metabolite, teriflunomide, which is responsible for essentially all of leflunomide's in vivo activity. Teriflunomide is an inhibitor of the organic anion transporting polypeptide OATP1B1, and some statins are substrates for the OATP transporters. Teriflunomide may increase the exposure (AUC) of these statins. Increased concentrations of the statins increases the risk for myopathy and other statin-related side effects.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with lenacapavir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and lenacapavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Leniolisib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with leniolisib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of BCRP and OATP1B1/3; leniolisib is an inhibitor of BCRP and OATP1B1/3.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with letermovir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an OATP1B1 substrate and letermovir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and lopinavir; ritonavir. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and ivacaftor is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Maralixibat: (Minor) Maralixibat may reduce the oral absorption of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, also known as statins, which may reduce their efficacy. This risk is greatest with maralixibat doses greater than 4.75 mg. Monitor statin therapy and adjust the dose as needed based on clinical response. Maralixibat is a OATP2B1 inhibitor and statins are OATP2B1 substrates.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and maribavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Midostaurin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP and OATP1B1 inhibitor.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with mifepristone. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and mifepristone is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with modafinil. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and modafinil is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Momelotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and momelotinib. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.7-fold.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and lipid-modifying dosages of niacin (1 g/day or more). Concomitant use increases the risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with nirmatrelvir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter OATP1B1 and nirmatrelvir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Nitisinone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with nitisinone. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and nitisinone is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Norgestrel: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.1 to 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of norgestrel. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of norgestrel, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with fluoxetine. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and fluoxetine is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid, such as oral sodium bicarbonate. Simultaneous coadministration with an antacid has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with orforglipron. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and orforglipron is a BCRP inhibitor.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with oritavancin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a CYP2C9 substrate and oritavancin is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Osimertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with osimertinib. Concomitant use has been shown to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Oteseconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with oteseconazole. Oteseconazole increased rosuvastatin exposure by 114%. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and oteseconazole is a BCRP inhibitor.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with pacritinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration increased rosuvastatin exposure by 1.8-fold.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with pirtobrutinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and pirtobrutinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use was observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 140%.
Pretomanid: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a BCRP inhibitor.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of colchicine and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) may increase the risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially following therapy initiation and upward dose titration. The use of low dose colchicine may further reduce the risk for myopathy.
Quizartinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with quizartinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Raltegravir: (Moderate) Raltegravir use has been associated with elevated creatinine kinase concentrations; myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported. Use raltegravir cautiously with drugs that increase the risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis such as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins).
Red Yeast Rice: (Contraindicated) Since compounds in red yeast rice claim to have HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor activity, red yeast rice should not be used in combination with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. The administration of more than one HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor at one time would be duplicative therapy and perhaps increase the risk of drug-related toxicity including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis.
Regorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and regorafenib. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 3.8-fold.
Resmetirom: (Major) Limit the dose of rosuvastatin to 20 mg once daily during concomitant use with resmetirom. Concomitant use was observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.8-fold which may increase the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with rifampin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an OATP1B1 substrate and rifampin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Rolapitant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with rolapitant. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and rolapitant is a BCRP inhibitor.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with rucaparib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and rucaparib is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with saquinavir. Concomitant use may increase rosuvastatin exposure.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) When coadministered with oral contraceptives during drug interaction studies, rosuvastatin produced an approximately 1.3-fold increase in the AUC and maximal concentrations of ethinyl estradiol. The changes are not likely to be of clinical consequence for most patients; some patients may experience increases in common side effects of hormonal contraceptives, such as breast tenderness, nausea, headache, or fluid retention.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with selpercatinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and selpercatinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.9-fold.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use increased rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.3-fold.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid, such as oral sodium bicarbonate. Simultaneous coadministration with an antacid has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a BCRP inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and sofosbuvir; velpatasvir; voxilaprevir. If concomitant use of sofosbuvir; velpatasvir is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use of sofosbuvir; velpatasvir; voxilaprevir and sofosbuvir; velpatasvir has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 7.2- and 2.7-fold, respectively .
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and sofosbuvir; velpatasvir; voxilaprevir. If concomitant use of sofosbuvir; velpatasvir is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use of sofosbuvir; velpatasvir; voxilaprevir and sofosbuvir; velpatasvir has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 7.2- and 2.7-fold, respectively . (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and voxilaprevir. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 7.4-fold.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with sotorasib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and sotorasib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with stiripentol. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and stiripentol is a BCRP inhibitor.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been administered safely with niacin (nicotinic acid) in some patients; however the risk of potential myopathy should be considered. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking niacin (nicotinic acid) in lipid-altering doses (i.e., >=1 g/day) and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (Statins) concurrently. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be carefully weighed against the potential risks. Patients undergoing combined therapy should be carefully monitored for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, particularly in the early months of treatment or during periods of upward dose titration of either drug. Chinese patients receiving concomitant lipid-altering doses of niacin-containing products should not receive the 80 mg dose of simvastatin due to increased risk of myopathy.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with sulfamethoxazole. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and sulfamethoxazole is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
sulfaSALAzine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with sulfasalazine. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and sulfasalazine is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with tacrolimus. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and tacrolimus is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tafamidis: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and tafamidis. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 20 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2-fold.
Tedizolid: (Moderate) Monitor for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with tedizolid. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Consider reducing the dose of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ("Statins" including atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, or simvastatin) during use of teriflunomide and monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of myopathy. For a patient taking teriflunomide, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily. Patients should be advised to report promptly unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever. Teriflunomide is an inhibitor of the organic anion transporting polypeptide OATP1B1, and some statins are substrates for the OATP transporters. Teriflunomide may increase the exposure (AUC) of these statins. Increased concentrations of the statins increases the risk for myopathy and other statin-related side effects.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with ivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and ivacaftor is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and ticagrelor. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 20 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Tipranavir: (Major) The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, may be increased when tipranavir is given in combination with most HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. If rosuvastatin is to be used concomitantly with tipranavir (in the FDA approved dosage regimen), use the lowest possible dose with careful monitoring, or consider an alternative HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor that is less significantly metabolized by CYP3A4 (i.e., fluvastatin, pravastatin).
Toremifene: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with toremifene. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Vadadustat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and vadadustat. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 5 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by approximately 2.5-fold.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with valproic acid. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and valproic acid is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a BCRP inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a BCRP inhibitor.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with vemurafenib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and vemurafenib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Vimseltinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with vimseltinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and vimseltinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and lipid-modifying dosages of niacin (1 g/day or more). Concomitant use increases the risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with voclosporin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an OATP1B1 substrate and voclosporin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with clarithromycin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a substrate of the drug transporter OATP1B1/3 and clarithromycin is an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with voriconazole. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and voriconazole is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Addition of rosuvastatin to warfarin therapy has resulted in significant increases in the INR (> 4, baseline 2 to 3), without a change in warfarin plasma concentrations. INR should be monitored at baseline prior to rosuvastatin initiation, and frequently following initiation of rosuvastatin therapy and subsequent dosage changes. Adjust warfarin dosage based on INR and clinical response. Once a stable INR is documented, INR can be monitored at the intervals otherwise recommended based on the indication for anticoagulation and co-existing conditions. Rosuvastatin has not been associated with bleeding or with changes in INR in patients not taking oral anticoagulants. (Moderate) Coadministration with ezetimibe has not demonstrated significant effects on the bioavailability or the anticoagulant effects of warfarin when studied in 12 healthy adult males. However, according to the manufacturer, increases in PT/INR have been reported and accordingly recommends that if ezetimibe is added to warfarin, the INR should be monitored.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with zafirlukast. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and zafirlukast is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Zongertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with zongertinib. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.3-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, Lou Gehrig's Disease) has been reported to the FDA in a higher than expected number of patients taking statins, such as rosuvastatin. ALS is a progressive motor neuron disorder with symptoms such as difficulty walking or standing, difficulty with fine motor skills, atrophy of tongue and hand muscles, dysphagia, dysarthria, and muscle paralysis. Due to the seriousness of ALS and the extensive use of statins, FDA further examined data from 41 long-term controlled clinical trials. The results of the review showed no increased incidence of ALS in patients treated with a statin compared with placebo. Specifically, 9 of approximately 64,000 patients treated with a statin (4.2 cases per 100,000 patient-years) and 10 of approximately 56,000 patients treated with placebo (5 cases per 100,000 patient-years) were diagnosed with ALS. FDA is examining the feasibility of performing additional epidemiologic studies to further examine the incidence and clinical course of ALS in patients taking statins.
    Headline
    elevated creatine kinase, fever, hematuria, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, myoglobinuria, myopathy, proteinuria, renal failure, rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    Rhabdomyolysis and myopathy (muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness with elevated creatine kinase) with acute renal failure due to myoglobinuria have been reported with statins, including rosuvastatin. Rhabdomyolysis may occur anytime during drug treatment and the risk may be increased by a number of confounding factors including age, concomitant drug therapy, renal dysfunction, race, and concomitant disease states. The risk of rhabdomyolysis and myopathy can occur at any dose concentration but increases in a dose-dependent manner with rosuvastatin 40 mg; ezetimibe 10 mg daily having the highest risk. Risk of myopathy is higher in Asian patients receiving statin therapy. Myalgia and elevated creatine kinase (CK) occurred in 2.8% to 12.7% and 2.6%, respectively, of rosuvastatin patients compared to 1.3% to 12.1% and 0.7%, respectively, of placebo patients in clinical trials. In clinical studies, myalgia and musculoskeletal pain in the extremity were reported in 3.2% and 2.1%, respectively, of patients receiving ezetimibe plus a statin compared to 2.7% and 1.9%, respectively, of patients receiving a statin. Musculoskeletal pain in the extremity was reported in 2.7% of ezetimibe patients and 2.5% of placebo patients. In clinical studies, dipstick-positive proteinuria and microscopic hematuria were reported in rosuvastatin patients; incidence was higher with 40 mg/day compared to lower rosuvastatin dosages. In patients who have unexplained persistent proteinuria or hematuria during routine urinalysis testing, consider a reduction in rosuvastatin; ezetimibe dosage. Patients receiving rosuvastatin; ezetimibe therapy should be monitored for symptoms of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis (myalgia, lethargy/drowsiness, fatigue, weakness, fever, and/or myasthenia) and CK serum concentrations. Muscle symptoms and CK elevations may resolve upon rosuvastatin; ezetimibe discontinuation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myasthenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myoglobinuria
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy
    General Information
    Immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy, has occurred rarely (1 to 3 of every 100,000 patients) with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, such as rosuvastatin. Recurrence of IMNM has been reported following administration of the same or a different statin. IMNM is characterized by myalgia with symmetrical and proximal muscle weakness and elevated creatine kinase, which persist despite discontinuation of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor treatment. Some cases have occurred months to years after starting HMG-CoA reductase therapy and the myopathy progressed following therapy discontinuation. Other characteristics include positive anti-HMG-CoA reductase antibody, muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy, and improvement with immunosuppressive agents. Dysphagia and respiratory failure have also been reported in patients with IMNM. Reported creatine kinase concentrations have ranged from 576 to 35,000 International Units/L. Patients who develop IMNM may require additional neuromuscular and serologic testing. If IMNM develops, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy should be discontinued and treatment with immunosuppressants, such as high dose corticosteroids, intravenous immune globulin (IVIG), or other immunosuppressive agents, may be needed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, jaundice, pancreatitis
    General Information
    Although rare, severe hepatotoxicity may occur during HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy. Fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure, hepatitis, and jaundice have been reported with postmarketing use of rosuvastatin. Hepatitis has also been reported with postmarketing use of ezetimibe. Pancreatitis was reported during clinical trials with rosuvastatin and postmarketing use of ezetimibe. Elevated hepatic enzymes have also occurred with rosuvastatin therapy. Additionally, elevations of hepatic enzymes more than 5 times the upper limit of normal have been reported with postmarketing use of ezetimibe. In clinical studies, elevations in hepatic enzymes to more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in 1.1% of rosuvastatin-treated subjects compared to 0.5% of placebo-treated subjects. In most cases, these changes occurred soon after initiation of therapy, were not associated with symptoms, were transient and resolved with continued therapy or improved following a brief interruption in therapy. In clinical studies, elevations in hepatic enzymes to more than 3 times the ULN occurred in 0.5% of ezetimibe-treated subjects compared to 0.3% of placebo-treated subjects. In studies involving ezetimibe and statins, elevations in hepatic enzymes to more than 3 times the ULN occurred in 1.3% of the ezetimibe plus statin group compared to 0.4% of the statin group. Cholelithiasis and cholecystitis have been reported with postmarketing use of ezetimibe. Assess liver enzymes prior to treatment initiation and repeat as clinically indicated if signs or symptoms of hepatic injury occur. Consider withdrawal of rosuvastatin; ezetimibe for persistent elevations in hepatic enzymes of 3 or more times the ULN. Promptly discontinue rosuvastatin; ezetimibe if hepatic injury with clinical symptoms, hyperbilirubinemia, or jaundice occurs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cholecystitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      cholelithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, nausea
    General Information
    Adverse gastrointestinal effects reported during clinical trials of rosuvastatin compared to placebo include nausea (3.4% vs. 3.1%) and constipation (2.4% vs. 2.4%). Abdominal pain was also reported with rosuvastatin therapy. Diarrhea was reported in 2.5% if ezetimibe patients compared to 2.2% of placebo patients in clinical trials. Abdominal pain and nausea have been reported with postmarketing use of ezetimibe.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    asthenia, confusion, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, impaired cognition, insomnia, memory impairment, nightmares, paresthesias
    General Information
    In rosuvastatin clinical trials, headache, asthenia, and dizziness were reported in 5.5 to 6.4%, 2.7%, and 4% of rosuvastatin patients, respectively, compared to 5 to 5.3%, 2.6%, and 2.8% of placebo patients, respectively. Fatigue was reported in 2.4% and 2% of ezetimibe and ezetimibe plus statin patients, respectively, compared to 1.5 to 1.6% of placebo patients in clinical studies. There have been rare postmarketing reports of impaired cognition (e.g., memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia, memory impairment, confusion) associated with all statins. These reports of impaired cognition have generally not been serious and have been reversible upon statin discontinuation. Time to onset of cognitive impairment symptoms ranged from 1 day to years after initiation of therapy and the median time to symptom resolution is 3 weeks. Depression, insomnia, and nightmares have been reported with postmarketing use of rosuvastatin. Dizziness, depression, paresthesias, and headache have been reported with postmarketing use of ezetimibe.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nightmares
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    arthralgia
    General Information
    Arthralgia has been reported during therapy with rosuvastatin and ezetimibe. In clinical trials, arthralgia was reported in 10.1% of rosuvastatin patients compared to 7.1% of placebo patients. In ezetimibe clinical studies, arthralgia was reported in 3% of ezetimibe patients and 2.2% of placebo patients. Arthralgia and back pain were reported in 2.6% and 2.4% of ezetimibe plus statin patients, respectively, compared to 2.4% and 2.3% of statin patients, respectively.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    An association between HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including rosuvastatin, and peripheral neuropathy has been reported in the literature (case series, case-control studies, cohort studies). In a nested case-control study of a Danish population, the odds ratio for idiopathic peripheral neuropathy in 166 patients that ever or were currently taking a statin, was 3.7 (95% CI 1.8 to 7.6); similar results have been found in other population-based studies, although the number of patients studied was significantly smaller. Case reports and series indicate that the onset of neuropathy is typically greater than 1 year after drug initiation and is reversible with drug discontinuation. However, cases describing irreversible neuropathy are also reported. The adverse effect appears to be a class effect because when a patient is either rechallenged or treated with a different statin, the symptoms of neuropathy often return. While the data appear to support an association between HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and peripheral neuropathy, the incidence is rare and estimated to be approximately 1 per 14,000 person-years. Furthermore, a causal relationship cannot be definitively established based on the observational nature of the available data. The benefits of statin therapy far outweigh any risk of peripheral neuropathy; however, until more information is available, health care providers should be aware of this adverse effect. Peripheral neuropathy has been reported with post-marketing use of rosuvastatin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Elevated glycated hemoglobin, hyperglycemia, and new cases of diabetes mellitus have been reported in patients taking rosuvastatin. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study, the incidence of diabetes mellitus was higher with rosuvastatin at 2.8% compared to placebo at 2.3%. Additionally, the number of patients with a hemoglobin A1C greater than 6.5% was significantly higher with rosuvastatin compared to placebo. In the JUPITER trial, elevated glycated hemoglobin occurred more frequently in patients taking rosuvastatin compared to those receiving placebo (5.9% vs. 5.8%, respectively, p=0.001) as did physician-reported diabetes (3% vs. 2.4%, respectively, p=0.01). Increased hemoglobin A1C and fasting serum glucose (hyperglycemia) have been reported during therapy with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. A meta-analysis of 13 statin trials with 91,140 participants showed a 9% increase in the likelihood of the development of diabetes (OR 1.09; 95% CI 1.02 to 1.17). The incidence of diabetes was higher in high-risk patients (i.e., age 70 to 82 years with or at high risk of cardiovascular disease, myocardial infarction within the last 6 months, or heart failure) compared to patients with low diabetes risk (i.e., low BMI). Additionally, an analysis of the data from the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) trial found that statin use in postmenopausal women is associated with an increased risk of new-onset diabetes mellitus (multivariate-adjusted HR 1.48; 95% CI 1.38 to 1.59). No difference in the risk for diabetes between statins was detected in either analysis. Because the use of statins has been associated with significant benefit for cardiovascular risk reduction and all-cause mortality at comparable rates in diabetic and non-diabetic patients, no changes to clinical practice guidelines have been recommended in either population.49064  However, the increased risk of diabetes should be considered when initiating rosuvastatin therapy in patients at low risk for cardiovascular events and in patient groups where the cardiovascular benefit of statin therapy has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diabetes mellitus
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), erythema multiforme, lichen planus-like eruption, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions, including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema, have been reported with rosuvastatin therapy during clinical trials. During postmarketing experience with ezetimibe, hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, rash, and urticaria) and erythema multiforme have been reported. Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) and lichen planus-like eruption (lichenoid drug eruption) have been reported in postmarketing surveillance with rosuvastatin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      lichen planus-like eruption
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    infection, influenza, pharyngitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    In clinical trials evaluating ezetimibe monotherapy, upper respiratory tract infection (4.3% with ezetimibe vs. 2.5% with placebo), sinusitis (2.8% vs. 2.2%) and influenza (2% vs. 1.5%) were reported. During ezetimibe plus statin trials, naso-pharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and influenza were reported in 3.7%, 2.9%, and 2.2% of patients receiving combination therapy, respectively, compared to 3.3%, 2.8%, and 2.1% of statin patients, respectively.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Thrombocytopenia has been reported with postmarketing use of both rosuvastatin and ezetimibe.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    interstitial lung disease
    General Information
    Interstitial lung disease has been reported with postmarketing use of rosuvastatin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial lung disease
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    Co-Enzyme Q-10 deficiency
    General Information
    HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, such as rosuvastatin, inhibit the synthesis of mevalonate and decrease Co-Enzyme Q-10 concentrations, which may lead to Co-Enzyme Q-10 deficiency. Supplementation with Co-Enzyme Q-10 may limit potential adverse reactions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      Co-Enzyme Q-10 deficiency
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    myasthenia gravis
    General Information
    Exacerbation and induction of myasthenia gravis, including ocular myasthenia, has been reported during treatment with statins, including rosuvastatin. Reports of recurrence have been noted when the same or a different statin was administered. In a review of adult patients enrolled at a neuromuscular disease clinic over a 4-year time period, 6 of 54 myasthenia gravis patients (11%) receiving statin therapy experienced worsening myasthenia gravis. In a disproportionality analysis of the World Health Organization's VigiBase pharmacovigilance database, 169 of 3,967 (4.2%) adverse reactions with the term 'myasthenia gravis and related conditions' were related to statin therapy. The reporting odds ratio (ROR) of myasthenia gravis relative to all other adverse reactions was 2.66 [95% CI: 2.28, 3.1] for statin therapy. In addition, the ROR was greater than 1 and statistically significant for all individual statins except lovastatin. The onset of symptoms following initiation of statin therapy has ranged from 1 week to 4 months for exacerbation and 6 months to 6 years for induction of myasthenia gravis. Partial or complete recovery has been reported following discontinuation of statin therapy; however, some patients have required treatment with pyridostigmine or immunosuppressive agents. Though this appears to be a rare adverse reaction, clinicians should closely monitor patients with myasthenia gravis for disease exacerbation and encourage them to report any muscle-related symptoms.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myasthenia gravis
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Rosuvastatin; ezetimibe is an oral antilipemic combination. Rosuvastatin is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin). Ezetimibe is a potent cholesterol absorption inhibitor and selectively blocks the intestinal absorption of cholesterol and related phytosterols. This combination medication is indicated as an adjunct to diet for the treatment of primary non-familial hyperlipidemia or as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering therapies for the treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) in adult patients. In clinical trials, rosuvastatin; ezetimibe therapy resulted in greater LDL-C reductions (56.5 to 59.5%) compared to rosuvastatin monotherapy (44.4 to 51.1%). Greater reductions in non-HDL-C, Apo-B, triglycerides, and total cholesterol were also seen with rosuvastatin; ezetimibe compared to ezetimibe. There was no significant differences in adverse events between rosuvastatin; ezetimibe and rosuvastatin therapies. The most commonly reported adverse reactions with rosuvastatin; ezetimibe therapy were gastrointestinal (2.4 to 3%) and musculoskeletal (2 to 2.4%) compared to 0.5 to 4.1% and 0.5 to 0.8% with rosuvastatin, respectively.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Rosuvastatin and ezetimibe exhibit complementary mechanisms that reduce LDL-C, total cholesterol, non-high density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C), and apolipoprotein-B (Apo-B). In clinical trials, rosuvastatin; ezetimibe therapy resulted in greater LDL-C reductions (56.5 to 59.5%) compared to rosuvastatin monotherapy (44.4 to 51.1%). Greater reductions in non-HDL-C, Apo-B, and total cholesterol were also seen with rosuvastatin; ezetimibe compared to ezetimibe.
Rosuvastatin: Rosuvastatin is an inhibitor of hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase. HMG-CoA reductase is the rate-limiting hepatic enzyme responsible for converting HMG-CoA to mevalonate, a precursor of sterols including cholesterol. Inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase lowers the amount of mevalonate and subsequently reduces cholesterol levels in hepatic cells. This, in turn, results in upregulation of LDL-receptors and increased hepatic uptake of LDL-C from the circulation. Rosuvastatin also inhibits hepatic synthesis of VLDL, which reduces the total number of VLDL and LDL particles. Rosuvastatin decreases total cholesterol, LDL-C, triglycerides, and Apo-B while increasing HDL-C. During a Phase II study, rosuvastatin doses of 1 to 80 mg lowered LDL-C by 34 to 65%. The maximum LDL-C reduction of rosuvastatin usually occurs in 4 weeks and is then maintained.
Ezetimibe: Ezetimibe lowers serum cholesterol concentrations by selectively inhibiting the absorption of cholesterol and related phytosterols by the small intestine. Ezetimibe does not inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the liver or increase bile acid secretion. Ezetimibe localizes at the brush border of the small intestine. The molecular target of ezetimibe has been show to the sterol transporter, Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1), which is involved in the intestinal uptake of cholesterol and phytosterols. Ezetimibe inhibits the absorption of cholesterol, leading to a decrease in the delivery of intestinal cholesterol to the liver. This causes a reduction of hepatic cholesterol stores and an increase in the blood clearance of cholesterol. When ezetimibe is given as monotherapy, a compensatory increase in cholesterol synthesis occurs. With ongoing therapy, the overall effects of ezetimibe monotherapy are to reduce total cholesterol (13%), LDL-cholesterol (18%), and Apo-B (16%) in patients with hypercholesterolemia. Ezetimibe also reduces plasma concentrations of the noncholesterol sterols (sitosterol and campesterol). In a 2-week study of 18 hypercholesterolemic patients, ezetimibe has been reported to inhibit intestinal cholesterol absorption by 54% relative to placebo. The maximum therapeutic response of ezetimibe usually occurs in 2 weeks and is maintained during chronic therapy.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Rosuvastatin: The bioavailability of rosuvastatin is approximately 20%, with peak rosuvastatin plasma concentrations reached within 3 to 5 hours after oral dosing. Food reduces absorption by 20%, but does not affect overall bioavailability.
Ezetimibe: Following oral administration of a single 10 mg dose to fasted adults, the mean Cmax was 3.4 to 5.5ng/mL and time to maximum concentration was 4 to 12 hours for ezetimibe. For ezetimibe-glucuronide, the mean Cmax was 45 to 71 ng/mL and time to maximum concentration was 1 to 2 hours. The concomitant administration of food (high-fat vs. non-fat meals) has no effect on the extent of absorption of ezetimibe. However, coadministration with a high-fat meal increases the Cmax of ezetimibe by 38%.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Rosuvastatin: In patients with chronic alcohol liver disease, the AUC of rosuvastatin is increased by 5% and 21% in patients with Child-Pugh class A and B disease, respectively, and the Cmax by 60% and 100%, respectively.
Ezetimibe: Although pharmacokinetic differences have been identified in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A), no dosage adjustments for ezetimibe are indicated. Significant increases in ezetimibe exposure occur in patients with moderate to severe impairment (Child-Pugh B or C); ezetimibe is not recommended for use in these patients. Following administration with a single 10 mg ezetimibe dose in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A), the mean AUC for total ezetimibe increased by 1.7-fold compared to healthy subjects. In patients with moderate (Child-Pugh B) or severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment, the mean AUC values for total ezetimibe (unconjugated and conjugated) and ezetimibe increased 3 to 4-fold and 5 to 6-fold, respectively, compared to healthy patients. Compared to patients without hepatic impairment, the mean AUC for total ezetimibe and ezetimibe increased by approximately 4-fold following administration of ezetimibe 10 mg PO once daily for 14 days in patients with moderate hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Rosuvastatin: Rosuvastatin serum concentrations are increased approximately 3-fold in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) vs. patients with normal renal function. Mild to moderate renal impairment did not impact rosuvastatin plasma concentrations. According to the manufacturer, hemodialysis does not significantly enhance the clearance of rosuvastatin. Rosuvastatin serum concentrations are increased approximately 50% in hemodialysis vs. patients with normal renal function.
Ezetimibe: Although pharmacokinetic differences have been identified in severe renal impairment, no dosage adjustments for ezetimibe are indicated. In 8 patients with severe renal impairment (mean CrCl 30 mL/min/1.73m2 or lower), the mean AUC values for total ezetimibe, ezetimibe-glucuronide, and ezetimibe are increased by approximately 1.5-fold, compared to healthy subjects (n=9).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Rosuvastatin: Minimal differences in rosuvastatin pharmacokinetics have been noted for elderly versus younger adult volunteers (AUC increased by 6%); these differences are not considered to be clinically significant.
Ezetimibe: With repeated dosing of 10 mg daily for 10 days, plasma concentrations for total ezetimibe are about 2-fold higher in elderly subjects compared to younger adults; however, no dosage adjustment is recommended in elderly patients.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Rosuvastatin: Minimal differences in rosuvastatin pharmacokinetics have been noted for male vs. female subjects (AUC decreased by 9%); these differences are not considered to be clinically significant.
Ezetimibe: Although pharmacokinetic differences have been identified in women, no dosage adjustments for ezetimibe are indicated. In a multiple-dose study of 10 mg once daily for 10 days, plasma concentrations for total ezetimibe were slightly higher (greater than 20%) for women relative to men.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Rosuvastatin: A population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed no clinically relevant differences in rosuvastatin pharmacokinetics among White, Hispanic, and Black or Afro-Caribbean patients. However, pharmacokinetic studies show an approximate 2-fold elevation in median exposure (AUC and Cmax) in Asian subjects compared to White patients.
Ezetimibe: Race was not shown to have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of ezetimibe.
  Text
  Rosuvastatin; ezetimibe is administered orally. No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions have been noted when ezetimibe was coadministered with rosuvastatin.
Rosuvastatin: Rosuvastatin does not undergo extensive metabolism, with approximately 10% of a radiolabeled doses recovered as a metabolite. Overall, greater than 90% of active plasma HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity is associated with the parent compound. Rosuvastatin appears to be metabolized to a limited extent to an N-desmethyl metabolite (approximately one-sixth to one-half the potency of rosuvastatin) and a 5S-lactone product. Following oral administration, 90% of rosuvastatin and its metabolites are excreted in the feces. Following intravenous administration, approximately 72% of the total body clearance was via the hepatic route and 28% via the renal route. Rosuvastatin is 88% bound to plasma proteins, primarily albumin, and has a mean Vd of 134 L. The protein binding is reversible and independent of plasma concentrations. Rosuvastatin has a plasma half-life of about 19 to 20 hours.
Ezetimibe: Ezetimibe is administered orally. Following systemic absorption, ezetimibe is extensively conjugated to a pharmacologically active phenolic glucuronide (ezetimibe-glucuronide). Ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide are highly bound (greater than 90%) to human plasma proteins. Ezetimibe is rapidly metabolized by glucuronidation to ezetimibe-glucuronide in the small intestine and liver. Metabolism by oxidative metabolism is minimal. Ezetimibe lacks significant inhibitor or inducer effects on cytochrome P-450 isoenzymes. Ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide are the major drug-derived compounds detected in plasma, constituting approximately 10% to 20% and 80% to 90% of the total drug in plasma, respectively. Both ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide are slowly eliminated from the plasma with a half-life of about 22 hours. Ezetimibe is enterohepatically recirculated, as evidenced by multiple peaks in its plasma concentrations. After oral administration of radiolabeled ezetimibe, total ezetimibe (ezetimibe plus ezetimibe-glucuronide) accounts for approximately 93% of the total plasma radioactivity. After 48 hours, the plasma radioactivity is undetectable. Over a 10-day period, approximately 78% and 11% of the administered dose is recovered in the feces and urine, respectively. Ezetimibe is the major component recovered in the feces and accounts for 69% of the administered dose, while ezetimibe-glucuronide is the major component recovered in the urine and accounts for 9% of the administered dose.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: OATP1B1, BCRP
Rosuvastatin is a substrate for certain transporter proteins including the hepatic uptake transporter organic anion-transporting polyprotein 1B1 (OATP1B1) and efflux transporter breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). Concomitant administration of medications that are inhibitors of these transporter proteins may result in increased rosuvastatin plasma concentrations. CYP3A4 is not involved in rosuvastatin metabolism to a clinically relevant extent. Since hepatic metabolism is a minor pathway for elimination, clinically significant drug interactions with rosuvastatin via CYP450 are limited. In vivo studies have demonstrated that azole antifungals (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, fluconazole) and erythromycin have minimal or no effects on the pharmacokinetics of rosuvastatin. Ezetimibe lacks significant inhibitor or inducer effects on cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and transporters.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Swallow tablets whole with or without food. Do not crush, dissolve, or chew tablets.
May administer without regard to food at any time of day.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, resume treatment with the next dose, do not double the next dose.
If administered concomitantly with a bile acid sequestrant, such as cholestyramine, administer rosuvastatin; ezetimibe at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant.
If administered concomitantly with aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacids, administer rosuvastatin; ezetimibe at least 2 hours before the antacid.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    40 mg/day PO rosuvastatin and 10 mg/day PO ezetimibe.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    40 mg/day PO rosuvastatin and 10 mg/day PO ezetimibe.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Rosuvastatin; ezetimibe is contraindicated in patients with acute liver injury or decompensated cirrhosis.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 30 mL/min or greater: No dosage adjustment needed.
 
CrCl less than 30 mL/min: Reduce initial dose to rosuvastatin 5 mg/ezetimibe 10 mg PO once daily for patients not receiving hemodialysis. Maximum dose is rosuvastatin 10 mg/ezetimibe 10 mg PO once daily.
