=== Methscopolamine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1447)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Description:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 12.5 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, blurred vision, cycloplegia, mydriasis, ocular hypertension, anhidrosis, fever, hyperthermia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), lactation suppression, urinary retention, urticaria, weakness

In an Overdose: Anticholinergic effects are usually minor with the use of normal doses but can be serious in an acute overdose or in combination with other drugs that also possess anticholinergic effects.CNS adverse reactions of methscopolamine include...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Methscopolamine should not be used in any patient with a known or suspected hypersensitivity to methscopolamine or any related drugs including atropine, homatropine, scopolamine and other belladonna alkaloids. Methscopolamine bromide should not be used in patients with bromide hypersensitivity.

Brand Names
  - Pamine
  - Pamine Forte

Dosage Forms
  - Methscopolamine Bromide 2.5mg Oral tablet
  - Methscopolamine Bromide 5mg Oral tablet
  - Methscopolamine Bromide Bulk powder
  - Methscopolamine Nitrate Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2.5 mg PO 3 times per day 30 minutes before meals and 2.5 to 5 mg PO at bedtime. LIMITATION OF USE: Methscopolamine is not indicated as monotherapy for treatment of peptic ulcer because effectiveness in peptic ulcer healing has not been established.
    Heading
    For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Methscopolamine should not be used in any patient with a known or suspected hypersensitivity to methscopolamine or any related drugs including atropine, homatropine, scopolamine and other belladonna alkaloids. Methscopolamine bromide should not be used in patients with bromide hypersensitivity.
 
The anticholinergic effects of methscopolamine may be significant and are additive with other anticholinergic medications. The elderly and children may be more sensitive to the effects of anticholinergics such as methscopolamine. In addition, the safety and efficacy of methscopolamine in children has not been established, and it is not recommended for this population.
 
Methscopolamine is contraindicated in patients with glaucoma because it produces mydriasis and cycloplegia which can increase intraocular pressure. Elderly patients are more susceptible to anticholinergic effects, including possible precipitation of undiagnosed glaucoma. The anticholinergic effects of methscopolamine may make the eyes dry and this can cause irritation or blurred vision for wearers of contact lenses. The use of lubricating drops may be necessary, or in severe cases the patient may need to discontinue the use of contact lenses while taking methscopolamine.
 
Methscopolamine is contraindicated in patients with urinary tract obstruction or bladder obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy because it can cause urinary retention via its antimuscarinic effects on the ureters and bladder. Methscopolamine can exacerbate urinary retention in patients with prostatic hypertrophy, and should be used with caution in these patients.
 
The anti-motility effects of methscopolamine on the gastrointestinal tract may exacerbate a number of gastrointestinal disorders. For this reason, methscopolamine is contraindicated in patients with GI obstruction (pyloric stenosis), severe ulcerative colitis, paralytic ileus, intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient, and toxic megacolon. Methscopolamine should also be used cautiously in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) or hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis. The decrease gastric motility and relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter caused by methscopolamine can promote gastric retention and aggravate reflux in these patients.
 
Methscopolamine can cause tachycardia secondary to cholinergic antagonism at the SA node. Tachycardia due to methscopolamine can increase the oxygen demand on the heart in patients with pre-existing cardiac disease such as hypertension, coronary artery disease, cardiac arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, and should be used cautiously in these patients. Patients with tachycardia or tachyarrhythmia are also at risk for adverse cardiovascular events when taking methscopolamine. In addition, patients with hyperthyroidism may also be at an increased risk for adverse cardiovascular effects, and methscopolamine should be used with caution in these patients. Methscopolamine is also contraindicated in patients with unstable cardiovascular status due to hemorrhagic shock.
 
Methscopolamine is contraindicated in patients with myasthenia gravis or autonomic neuropathy because the drug competes with the small amount of acetylcholine that has potential to act in the body.
 
Because data are lacking in patients with renal disease or hepatic disease, methscopolamine should be used with caution in these patients. No specific guidelines are available for dosing methscopolamine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment; however, it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
 
Methscopolamine decreases bronchial secretions and should be used cautiously in patients with chronic pulmonary disease including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Inspissation and formation of bronchial plugs may occur in these patients.
 
Insensitivity to heat (fever, diaphoresis) may occur when anticholinergics are administered in the presence of high environmental temperatures. Patients should avoid dehydration, undue sunlight (UV) exposure, or exposure to extremes of heat to avoid heat stroke.
 
Anticholinergic medications may cause blurred vision, drowsiness, or dizziness, especially with initial use. Patients should use caution when driving or operating machinery until they know how methscopolamine affects them. Ethanol intoxication can magnify sedative effects and is best avoided.
 
Methscopolamine is classified as pregnancy risk category C; although there are no adequate human studies of the effects of this drug on the fetus, animal reproduction studies have shown adverse fetal effects. Therefore, in making the decision to administer this drug during pregnancy, the potential risks to the fetus must be weighed against the potential benefits to the mother.
 
It is not known if methscopolamine is excreted into breast milk. Because of its anticholinergic properties, methscopolamine may suppress lactation in women who are breast-feeding. In addition, infants are usually more sensitive to the anticholinergic effects of drugs. A decision to discontinue methscopolamine or discontinue breast-feeding should be made, taking into account the importance of the medication to the lactating mother.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Methscopolamine is a quaternary ammonium derivative of scopolamine.
    Headline
    glaucoma
    General Information
    Methscopolamine is contraindicated in individuals with glaucoma because it produces mydriasis and cycloplegia which can increase intraocular pressure. Geriatric adults are more susceptible to anticholinergic effects, including possible precipitation of undiagnosed glaucoma.
    Headline
    prostatic hypertrophy, urinary tract obstruction
    General Information
    Methscopolamine is contraindicated in individuals with obstructive uropathy (urinary tract obstruction) such as people with bladder obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy. Use methscopolamine with caution in other individuals with prostatic hypertrophy.
    Headline
    GI obstruction, toxic megacolon, ulcerative colitis
    General Information
    Methscopolamine is contraindicated in people with obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (e.g., GI obstruction such as pyloroduodenal stenosis, gastric outlet obstruction, intestinal obstruction or paralytic ileus), intestinal atony in debilitated or geriatric patients, or severe ulcerative colitis or toxic megacolon that complicates ulcerative colitis. Because of the anticholinergic effects, methscopolamine should also be used cautiously in individuals with less severe ulcerative colitis, since large doses may suppress intestinal motility to the point of producing a paralytic ileus and aggravating toxic megacolon. Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction, especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy, and in the case of incomplete intestinal obstruction, treatment with methscopolamine would be inappropriate and possibly harmful.
    Headline
    coronary artery disease, heart failure, hemorrhagic shock, hypertension, hyperthyroidism, tachycardia
    General Information
    Methscopolamine is contraindicated in individuals with unstable cardiovascular status that occurs with hemorrhagic shock. Use methscopolamine with caution in those with hyperthyroidism, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, tachyarrhythmia, tachycardia, and hypertension.
    Headline
    autonomic neuropathy, myasthenia gravis
    General Information
    Methscopolamine is contraindicated in people with myasthenia gravis. Use methscopolamine with caution in individuals with autonomic neuropathy.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Methscopolamine should be used with caution in people with hepatic failure or impairment.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Methscopolamine should be used with caution in people with renal impairment or renal failure.
    Headline
    conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature
    General Information
    In the presence of conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature, people being treated with methscopolamine may experience heat prostration due to decreased sweating. Individuals receiving methscopolamine should be cautioned about fever, exposure to hot or humid environments, or heat prostration due to vigorous physical exercise because of the risk of heat stroke. Older adults may be particularly susceptible to these effects.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Methscopolamine may cause blurred vision. Drowsiness may also occur, particularly if combined with other CNS depressants. If blurred vision or drowsiness occurs, individuals should be warned to avoid driving or operating machinery or other activities requiring coordination and concentration until the full effects of the medication have dissipated.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Use methscopolamine with caution in geriatric adults. While this older agent is no longer mentioned specifically, the Beers Criteria identifies agents such as methscopolamine as potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in geriatric adults, recommending their avoidance due to uncertain effectiveness and high anticholinergic activity. These medications should particularly be avoided in patients with dementia or cognitive impairment (due to adverse CNS effects), those at high risk for delirium (which can worsen or trigger new-onset delirium), and men with lower urinary tract symptoms or benign prostatic hyperplasia (due to risks of urinary retention or hesitancy).
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Methscopolamine should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. It is not known whether methscopolamine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant individual or can affect reproduction capacity. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with methscopolamine.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Methscopolamine should be used with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known if methscopolamine is excreted into breast milk. Anticholinergic drugs may suppress lactation. The pharmacology of the drug suggests that infant exposure via breast milk is expected to be low. A single dose is unlikely to interfere with lactation; however, because of its anticholinergic properties, extended use may suppress lactation, particularly when lactation is starting to be established. Neonates and infants are usually more sensitive to the anticholinergic effects of drugs; if maternal use is prolonged it is prudent to monitor the infant for unwanted effects.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Methscopolamine should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. It is not known whether methscopolamine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant individual or can affect reproduction capacity. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with methscopolamine.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Methscopolamine should be used with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known if methscopolamine is excreted into breast milk. Anticholinergic drugs may suppress lactation. The pharmacology of the drug suggests that infant exposure via breast milk is expected to be low. A single dose is unlikely to interfere with lactation; however, because of its anticholinergic properties, extended use may suppress lactation, particularly when lactation is starting to be established. Neonates and infants are usually more sensitive to the anticholinergic effects of drugs; if maternal use is prolonged it is prudent to monitor the infant for unwanted effects.

Interactions
AbobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when dihydrocodeine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of dihydrocodeine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant codeine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant oxycodone and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Acetylcholine Chloride: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Aclidinium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when alfentanil is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of alfentanil and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Alosetron: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Amantadine: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when methscopolamine is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as amantadine.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Depending on the specific agent, additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when amoxapine is used concomitantly with other anticholinergic agents. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive CNS effects are also possible when these drugs are combined with amoxapine.
Antacids: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when orphenadrine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant codeine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the time of administration of oral methscopolamine and oral sodium bicarbonate by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease oral methscopolamine absorption and reduce efficacy.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant oxycodone and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Methscopolamine and atomoxetine should be combined cautiously in patients with known cardiac disease. Methscopolamine may alter the heart rate; the predominant clinical effect is sinus tachycardia. An additive effect on heart rate may occur as atomoxetine may elevate heart rate as well as blood pressure.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Diphenoxylate is a synthetic opiate derivative that appears to exert its effect locally and centrally on the smooth muscle cells of the GI tract to inhibit GI motility and slow excess GI propulsion. The effects can be additive to antimuscarinic agents, such as methscopolamine. In some cases, constipation might occur, and effects on the CNS or bladder function may also be additive.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Baclofen: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when opium is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of opium and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when benzhydrocodone is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of benzhydrocodone and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Bethanechol: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Botulinum Toxins: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant buprenorphine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant buprenorphine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when methscopolamine is used concomitantly with bupropion. Additive drowsiness may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when methscopolamine is used concomitantly with bupropion. Additive drowsiness may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
busPIRone: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant codeine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant codeine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when butorphanol is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of butorphanol and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Calcium Carbonate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant tramadol and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Cevimeline: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant codeine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including chlorpromazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
Cholinergic agonists: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Cisapride: (Moderate) The use of drugs that decrease GI motility, such as methscopolamine, may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of cisapride.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
cloZAPine: (Major) Avoid co-prescribing clozapine with other anticholinergic medicines that can cause gastrointestinal hypomotility, due to a potential to increase serious constipation, ileus, and other potentially serious bowel conditions that may result in hospitalization. Clozapine exhibits potent anticholinergic effects. Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when clozapine is used concomitantly with anticholinergic agents. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the anticholinergic agent used.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant codeine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant codeine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant codeine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant codeine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant codeine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant promethazine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant codeine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant promethazine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Crofelemer: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between crofelemer and antimuscarinics are theoretically possible. Crofelemer does not affect GI motility mechanisms, but does have antidiarrheal effects. Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility, such as antimuscarinics, may be at greater risk for serious complications from crofelemer, such as constipation with chronic use. Use caution and monitor GI symptoms during coadministration.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cyclobenzaprine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
Dasiglucagon: (Major) The concomitant use of intravenous glucagon and anticholinergics increases the risk of gastrointestinal adverse reactions due to additive effects on inhibition of gastrointestinal motility. Concomitant use is not recommended.
DaxibotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when methscopolamine is used concomitantly with bupropion. Additive drowsiness may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of quinidine may be significant and may be enhanced when combined with antimuscarinics.
diazePAM: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Anticholinergics, because of their ability to cause tachycardia, can antagonize the beneficial actions of digoxin in atrial fibrillation/flutter. Routine therapeutic monitoring should be continued when an antimuscarinic agent is prescribed with digoxin until the effects of combined use are known.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Diphenoxylate is a synthetic opiate derivative that appears to exert its effect locally and centrally on the smooth muscle cells of the GI tract to inhibit GI motility and slow excess GI propulsion. The effects can be additive to antimuscarinic agents, such as methscopolamine. In some cases, constipation might occur, and effects on the CNS or bladder function may also be additive.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) In addition to its electrophysiologic effects, disopyramide exhibits clinically significant anticholinergic properties. These can be additive with other anticholinergics. Clinicians should be aware that urinary retention, particularly in males, and aggravation of glaucoma are realistic possibilities of using disopyramide with other anticholinergic agents.
Donepezil: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of donepezil, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy. (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of donepezil, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with anticholinergics is necessary. Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with anticholinergics may result in additive drowsiness, hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity.
droPERidol: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Eluxadoline: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Estazolam: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant fentanyl and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including fluphenazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Galantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of both medications during concomitant use. Gepotidacin is a cholinesterase inhibitor. Anticholinergic medications and cholinesterase inhibitors antagonize each other.
Glucagon: (Major) The concomitant use of intravenous glucagon and anticholinergics increases the risk of gastrointestinal adverse reactions due to additive effects on inhibition of gastrointestinal motility. Concomitant use is not recommended.
Glycopyrronium: (Moderate) Although glycopyrronium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after topical application, there is the potential for glycopyrronium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of glycopyrronium with other anticholinergic medications.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant hydrocodone and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when hydromorphone is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of hydromorphone and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as methscopolamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
IncobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Ipratropium: (Moderate) Although ipratropium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other antimuscarinic or anticholinergic medications. Per the manufacturer, avoid coadministration.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Although ipratropium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other antimuscarinic or anticholinergic medications. Per the manufacturer, avoid coadministration.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Itraconazole: (Major) Antimuscarinics can raise intragastric pH. This effect may decrease the oral bioavailability of itraconazole; antimuscarinics should be used cautiously in patients receiving itraconazole.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when levorphanol is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of levorphanol and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Linaclotide: (Moderate) Anticholinergics can promote constipation and pharmacodynamically oppose the action of drugs used for the treatment of constipation or constipation-associated irritable bowel syndrome, such as linaclotide.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
LORazepam: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Loxapine has anticholinergic activity. The concomitant use of loxapine and other anticholinergic drugs can increase the risk of anticholinergic adverse reactions including exacerbation of glaucoma, constipation, and urinary retention. Depending on the agent used, additive drowsiness/dizziness may also occur.
Lubiprostone: (Moderate) Antimuscarinic drugs can promote constipation and pharmacodynamically oppose the action of drugs used for the treatment of constipation, such as lubiprostone. The clinical significance of these potential interactions is uncertain.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Antipsychotic agents may disrupt core temperature regulation; therefore, caution is recommended during concurrent use of lurasidone and medications with anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Concurrent use of lurasidone and medications with anticholinergic activity may contribute to heat-related disorders. Monitor patients for heat intolerance, decreased sweating, or increased body temperature if lurasidone is used with antimuscarinics.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin, such as antimuscarinic anticholinergic agents. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue anticholinergics at least 1 week before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of anticholinergics. Simultaneous oral administration should be avoided when feasible; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Memantine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when meperidine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of meperidine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when methadone is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of methadone and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
Methohexital: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Drugs with significant antimuscarinic activity, such as anticholinergics and antimuscarinics, may slow GI motility and thus may reduce the prokinetic actions of metoclopramide. Monitor patients for an increase in gastrointestinal complaints, such as reflux or constipation. Additive drowsiness may occur as well. The clinical significance is uncertain.
metOLazone: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Midazolam: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Molindone: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant morphine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when nalbuphine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of nalbuphine and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when olanzapine and anticholinergics are used concomitantly; use with caution. Use of olanzapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic activity. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the anticholinergic agent used.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when olanzapine and anticholinergics are used concomitantly; use with caution. Use of olanzapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic activity. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the anticholinergic agent used.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when olanzapine and anticholinergics are used concomitantly; use with caution. Use of olanzapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic activity. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the anticholinergic agent used.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when oliceridine is used with methscopolamine. Use of anticholinergics may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the time of administration of oral methscopolamine and oral sodium bicarbonate by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease oral methscopolamine absorption and reduce efficacy.
OnabotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when orphenadrine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant oxycodone and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when oxymorphone is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of oxymorphone and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant anticholinergic medication and paroxetine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when pentazocine is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of pentazocine and anticholinergic medications may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including perphenazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including perphenazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
Pilocarpine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as methscopolamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as methscopolamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Pralidoxime: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Pramlintide: (Major) Pramlintide therapy should not be considered in patients taking medications that alter gastric motility, such as anticholinergics. Pramlintide slows gastric emptying and the rate of nutrient delivery to the small intestine. Medications that have depressive effects on GI could potentiate the actions of pramlintide.
Primidone: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Procainamide: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of procainamide may be significant and may be enhanced when combined with anticholinergics. Anticholinergic agents administered concurrently with procainamide may produce additive antivagal effects on AV nodal conduction, although this is not as well documented for procainamide as for quinidine.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including prochlorperazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant promethazine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant promethazine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant promethazine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
pyRIDostigmine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of pyridostigmine can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of methscopolamine.
Quazepam: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant quetiapine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of quinidine may be significant and may be enhanced when combined with antimuscarinics.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) MAOIs exhibit secondary anticholinergic actions. Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when MAOIs are used concomitantly with antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive CNS effects are also possible when many of these drugs are combined with MAOIs.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when remifentanil is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of remifentanil and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Revefenacin: (Moderate) Although revefenacin is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other antimuscarinics. Avoid concomitant administration with other anticholinergic and antimucarinic medications.
RimabotulinumtoxinB: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of rivastigmine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Secretin: (Major) Discontinue anticholinergic medications at least 5 half-lives before performing a secretin stimulation test. Anticholinergics may cause a hyporesponse to secretin stimulation testing and interfere with the test's diagnostic accuracy.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by anticholinergics. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the time of administration of oral methscopolamine and oral sodium bicarbonate by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease oral methscopolamine absorption and reduce efficacy.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as methscopolamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like solifenacin are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. Blurred vision and dry mouth would be common effects. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when sufentanil is used concomitantly with an anticholinergic drug. The concomitant use of sufentanil and anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Tapentadol should be used cautiously with anticholinergic medications since additive depressive effects on GI motility or bladder function may occur. Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Opiate analgesics combined with antimuscarinics can cause severe constipation or paralytic ileus, especially with chronic use. Additive CNS effects like drowsiness or dizziness may also occur.
Tegaserod: (Major) Drugs that exert significant anticholinergic properties such as antimuscarinics may pharmacodynamically oppose the effects of prokinetic agents such as tegaserod. Avoid administering antimuscarinics along with tegaserod under most circumstances. Inhaled respiratory antimuscarinics, such as ipratropium, are unlikely to interact with tegaserod. Ophthalmic anticholinergics may interact if sufficient systemic absorption of the eye medication occurs.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Temazepam: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Tenapanor: (Moderate) Anticholinergics can promote constipation and pharmacodynamically oppose the action of drugs used for the treatment of constipation or constipation-associated irritable bowel syndrome, such as tenapanor.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties like thioridazine are used concomitantly with anticholinergic agents. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the interacting agent.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Anticholinergics may have additive effects with thiothixene, an antipsychotic with the potential for anticholinergic activity. Monitor for anticholinergic-related adverse effects such as xerostomia, blurred vision, constipation, and urinary retention during concurrent use.
Tiotropium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of anticholinergic medications and tiotropium due to increased risk for anticholinergic adverse effects.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when tolterodine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in hot weather, during concomitant use of topiramate and other drugs that predispose persons to heat-related disorders, such as anticholinergic medications. Concomitant use increases the risk for oligohidrosis and hyperthermia.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant tramadol and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant tramadol and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Triazolam: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when anticholinergics are used concomitantly with phenothiazines, including trifluoperazine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other additive CNS effects may also occur.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant tricyclic antidepressant and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Umeclidinium: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) There is the potential for umeclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of umeclidinium with other anticholinergic medications when possible.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Vibegron: (Moderate) Vibegron should be administered with caution in patients taking anticholinergics because of potential for an increased risk of urinary retention. Monitor for symptoms of urinary difficulties or urinary retention. Patients may note constipation or dry mouth with use of these drugs together.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics. When possible, avoid concurrent use, especially in the elderly, who are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects. Consider alternatives to these other medications, if available. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Blurred vision, constipation, and dry mouth may be more prominent additive effects. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with trospium.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Zonisamide use is associated with case reports of decreased sweating, hyperthermia, heat intolerance, or heat stroke and should be used with caution in combination with other drugs that may also predispose patients to heat-related disorders like anticholinergics.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Severe allergic reactions and drug idiosyncrasies including anaphylactoid reactions and anaphylactic shock have been reported with methscopolamine.The adverse reactions associated with methscopolamine occur primarily as a result of its anticholinergic actions. Anticholinergic effects are usually minor with the use of normal doses but can be serious in an acute overdose or in combination with other drugs that also possess anticholinergic effects.CNS adverse reactions of methscopolamine include insomnia, headache, anxiety, confusion, drowsiness and dizziness.Ophthalmic adverse reactions include blurred vision, ocular hypertension, mydriasis, and cycloplegia. A more serious effect is the exacerbation of narrow-angle glaucoma. These effects are due to the anticholinergic activity of methscopolamine.Methscopolamine may cause xerostomia. Patients should should suck on hard candy, chew gum, or drink water to relieve dry mouth. Other GI effects include loss of taste (ageusia), constipation, nausea/vomiting, and bloating.Because of its cholinergic antagonism at the SA node, methscopolamine may cause adverse cardiovascular effects including palpitations and sinus tachycardia.The anticholinergic effect of methscopolamine can decrease the amount of sweating and heat release from the body. Decreased sweating (anhidrosis), from depression of sweat gland activity, and fever may be indicative of a rapid rise in body temperature and are of concern in areas where the environmental temperature is high because hyperthermia, fever and heat stroke could be precipitated by methscopolamine.Other adverse reactions reported with methscopolamine include urticaria, lactation suppression, urinary hesitancy, urinary retention, and impotence (erectile dysfunction).
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    The adverse reactions associated with methscopolamine occur primarily as a result of its anticholinergic actions. Anticholinergic effects are usually minor with the use of normal doses but can be serious in an acute overdose or in combination with other drugs that also possess anticholinergic effects.
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions
    General Information
    Severe allergic reactions and drug idiosyncrasies including anaphylactoid reactions and anaphylactic shock have been reported with methscopolamine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia
    General Information
    CNS adverse reactions of methscopolamine include insomnia, headache, confusion, drowsiness, nervousness, and dizziness.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    blurred vision, cycloplegia, mydriasis, ocular hypertension
    General Information
    Ophthalmic adverse reactions include blurred vision, ocular hypertension, mydriasis, and cycloplegia. A more serious effect is the exacerbation of narrow-angle glaucoma. These effects are due to the anticholinergic activity of methscopolamine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cycloplegia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      mydriasis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    constipation, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Methscopolamine may cause xerostomia. Patients should should suck on hard candy, chew gum, or drink water to relieve dry mouth. Other GI effects include loss of taste (ageusia), constipation, nausea, vomiting, and bloating.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    palpitations, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Because of its cholinergic antagonism at the SA node, methscopolamine may cause adverse cardiovascular effects including palpitations and sinus tachycardia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anhidrosis, fever, hyperthermia
    General Information
    The anticholinergic effect of methscopolamine can decrease the amount of sweating and heat release from the body. Decreased sweating (anhidrosis), from depression of sweat gland activity, and fever may be indicative of a rapid rise in body temperature and are of concern in areas where the environmental temperature is high because hyperthermia, fever and heat stroke could be precipitated by methscopolamine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anhidrosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperthermia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    impotence (erectile dysfunction), lactation suppression, urinary retention, urticaria, weakness
    General Information
    Adverse reactions reported with methscopolamine include urticaria, lactation suppression, urinary hesitancy, urinary retention, weakness, and impotence (erectile dysfunction).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      lactation suppression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Description: Methscopolamine is an oral muscarinic-receptor antagonist structurally similar to scopolamine. Historically, methscopolamine and other similar anticholinergics were often used, along with antacids, to decrease gastric acid secretion in patients with peptic ulcer disease. More effective agents are currently available (H2-receptor blockers, proton-pump inhibitors) to manage peptic ulcer disease, including the use of antimicrobials and gastric acid suppression to eradicate Helicobacter pylori. Although methscopolamine is FDA-approved as adjunctive therapy in the management of peptic ulcer disease, its efficacy in healing peptic ulcers, decreasing recurrence rate, or preventing complications has never been demonstrated. Currently, methscopolamine has limited use in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease. Due to its anticholinergic effects on bronchial receptors, methscopolamine is also an ingredient in some combination products for the temporary relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, sinusitis, and the common cold. Methscopolamine was approved by the FDA in 1952. A lactose-free formulation of Pamine® was approved during June, 2001.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mechanism of Action: Methscopolamine is a quaternary ammonium derivative of scopolamine. It competes with acetylcholine and other cholinergic stimuli at peripheral muscarinic receptors and at ganglionic nicotinic receptors. The degree of sensitivity of various muscarinic receptors to antimuscarinic agents is dose-dependent. The most sensitive receptors are those of the salivary, bronchial, and sweat glands. Next are the receptors in the eye and heart, followed by receptors in the GI tract, which are the least sensitive. The antisecretory effects of methscopolamine are mediated at the muscarinic receptors that control salivation, sweating, and gastric acid secretion. Methscoplamine decreases GI tone and decreases amplitude and frequency of peristaltic contractions of the esophagus, stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, and colon. Clinical effects of methscopolamine are decreased salivation (xerostomia), decreased sweating, decreased gastric acid production, and decreased GI motility (prolonged transit time).At therapeutic doses, methscoplamine and other quaternary ammonium anticholinergic agents also inhibit the effects of acetylcholine at postganglionic nicotinic receptors of the parasympathetic nervous system. These effects may include impotence and orthostatic hypotension and, in overdosage, can produce a curariform neuromuscular blockade. Quaternary amines also have poor ocular penetration and are therefore not useful in ophthalmology. Methscopolamine does not penetrate the CNS as readily as tertiary amine antimuscarinic agents and lacks many of the central effects of scopolamine.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Because methscopolamine is a quaternary compound and is ionized after oral administration, its absorption is incomplete (10—25%) and variable. Following oral absorption, the effects of methscopolamine are observed within 1 hour and persist for 4—6 hours.
  Text
  Methscopolamine is administered orally. Little is known regarding the pharmacokinetics of methscopolamine. Methscopolamine has limited penetration of the blood-brain-barrier, and thus, very little propensity for central nervous system effects. Excretion of methscopolamine occurs as unchanged drug and metabolites in the urine and bile, and as unabsorbed drug in the feces. The specific contribution of each of these pathways to the total elimination of methscopolamine is not known.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer methscopolamine 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    12.5 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    12.5 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
