=== Acetaminophen/Chlorpheniramine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 841)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine is an oral combination of an analgesic/antipyretic and antihistamine indicated for the treatment of fever, headache, minor aches and pains, rhinorrhea, and sneezing.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 3,900 mg/day PO acetaminophen; 24 mg/day PO chlorpheniramine.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria, excitability, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, irritability, neuritis, paresthesias, restlessness, seizures, tremor, interstitial nephritis, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis, agranulocytosis, hemolysis, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, hearing loss, tinnitus, vertigo

In an Overdose: In addition, acetaminophen overdose can result in acute renal failure and renal tubular necrosis, though such toxicity rarely occurs without severe hepatic toxicity. Drug-induced hemolysis and hemolytic anemia have been associated with acetaminophen overdose in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Chlorpheniramine is a first-generation antihistamine of the alkylamine class.

ACETAMINOPHEN/CHLORPHENIRAMINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Coricidin HBP Cold and Flu

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of symptoms of the common cold or flu, including fever, mild pain or aches, headache, sneezing, or rhinorrhea

Oral dosage (tablets containing 325 mg acetaminophen and 2 mg chlorpheniramine)
Adults


2 tablets PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 12 tablets per 24 hours.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


2 tablets PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 12 tablets per 24 hours.


Children 6 to 11 years


1 tablet PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 5 tablets per 24 hours.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Chlorpheniramine is a first-generation antihistamine of the alkylamine class. Allergies to one antihistamine can sometimes lead to cross-reactivity with other chemically-related antihistamines.

alcohol use disorder, ethanol ingestion, hepatic disease, hypovolemia, malnutrition


Use acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine with caution in individuals with hepatic disease. A reduced total daily dose of acetaminophen may be warranted in these individuals. Acetaminophen has been associated with hepatotoxicity. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses more than 4 g/day and often involve more than 1 acetaminophen-containing product. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and with chronic ethanol ingestion while taking acetaminophen, which may be defined as 3 or more alcoholic beverages per day. Use acetaminophen with caution in individuals with alcohol use disorder, chronic malnutrition, severe hypovolemia (i.e., due to dehydration or blood loss), or severe renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less). Take care when prescribing, preparing, and administering acetaminophen to avoid risk of medication errors which could result in accidental overdose and death. Ensure that the total daily dose of acetaminophen from all sources does not exceed maximum daily limits.


chronic obstructive pulmonary disease


Use acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine with caution in individuals with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including emphysema or chronic bronchitis. The anticholinergic activity of first-generation H1-antagonists may result in thickened bronchial secretions in the respiratory tract, thereby aggravating COPD.


glaucoma


Acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine should be used with caution in people with glaucoma, as an increase in intraocular pressure may occur from the anticholinergic actions of the medication. Older adults are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects of chlorpheniramine, including possible precipitation of undiagnosed glaucoma.


prostatic hypertrophy


Due to the anticholinergic effects which may aggravate urinary retention, first-generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine, should be used with caution in people with trouble urinating due to prostatic hypertrophy.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Chlorpheniramine can cause drowsiness. Advise individuals receiving acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine to avoid driving or operating machinery and activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of the drug are known. Additive drowsiness may be seen during coadministration with alcohol and other CNS depressants.


renal failure, renal impairment


People with significant renal impairment should generally consult their care team prior to using acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine. Some resources recommend cautious use of acetaminophen in severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) and less frequent acetaminophen dosing in patients with renal failure (CrCl less than 10 mL/minute). Acetaminophen is generally the fever and pain reliever of choice in patients with kidney dysfunction. Guidelines recommend using the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration needed. Habitual use of acetaminophen should be discouraged.


geriatric


The Beers Criteria identifies first-generation antihistamines as potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in geriatric adults, recommending their avoidance due to their high anticholinergic properties, decreased clearance in older age, the development of tolerance when used as sleep aids, and an increased risk of anticholinergic effects and toxicity compared to younger individuals. These medications should particularly be avoided in patients with dementia or cognitive impairment (due to adverse CNS effects), those at high risk for delirium (which can worsen or trigger new-onset delirium), and men with lower urinary tract symptoms or benign prostatic hyperplasia (due to risks of urinary retention or hesitancy). Acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine should be used with caution in geriatric adults, as they may be more susceptible to adverse anticholinergic effects of the sedating antihistamines. Other anticholinergic medications may intensify these effects, particularly in the older adult.


pregnancy


Acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine may be used during pregnancy; however, second-generation antihistamines are preferred over first-generation antihistamines. Controlled clinical trials of acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine use in human gestation are not available. Chlorpheniramine use during pregnancy has been associated with reassuring animal and human data; however, second-generation antihistamines are preferred over first-generation antihistamines. Loratadine and oral cetirizine are acceptable alternatives based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy. Both the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM) recommend acetaminophen as the first-line pharmacological therapy for pain and/or fever during pregnancy; use at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible time. Counsel pregnant patients to limit long-term or high-dose use to indications discussed with a health care provider. Published epidemiological studies of oral acetaminophen have not reported a clear association with acetaminophen use during pregnancy and birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Large observational studies of newborns exposed to oral acetaminophen during the first trimester have not shown an increased risk for congenital malformations or major birth defects; however, these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of risk because of methodological limitations.


breast-feeding


Use acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine with caution during breast-feeding. Small, occasional doses of chlorpheniramine would not be expected to cause adverse effects in breastfed infants. Larger doses or more prolonged use may cause effects in the infant or decrease the milk supply. Side effects of sedating first-generation antihistamines in breastfed infants such as irritability, disturbed sleeping patterns, drowsiness, hyperexcitability, and excessive crying have been reported in a number of cases. Single bedtime doses of short-acting chlorpheniramine, after the last feeding of the day may be suggested and might minimize infant exposure through the breast milk during feeding hours. Guidelines recommend loratadine or cetirizine at the lowest dose as preferred antihistamines in breast-feeding individuals because they are safer with only low levels found in breast milk. Acetaminophen is compatible with breast-feeding and is considered a first-line choice for analgesia, headache, or fever in the lactating individual, including for those patients who are immediately postpartum and planning to breastfeed. Amounts present in milk are much less than the doses usually given to infants, and adverse effects in breastfed infants appear to be rare. Limited published studies report acetaminophen is present in human milk, with similar concentrations in the milk and plasma. Average and maximum neonatal doses of 1% and 2%, respectively, of the weight-adjusted maternal dose are reported after a single oral dose of 1,000 mg. There is one well-documented report of rash occurring in a breastfed infant that resolved with drug discontinuation and recurred when acetaminophen was resumed.


children, infants, neonates


Due to the risk for serious adverse reactions, the FDA recommends against administration of over the counter (OTC) cough and cold products to neonates, infants and children younger than 2 years of age. When administering OTC medications to older pediatric patients, they advise caregivers to read product labels carefully, use caution when administering multiple products to avoid duplication of ingredients, and use only measuring devices specifically designed for use with medications. Care teams should thoroughly assess the use of similar products, both prescription and nonprescription, to avoid duplication of therapy and the potential for inadvertent overdose.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine may be used during pregnancy; however, second-generation antihistamines are preferred over first-generation antihistamines. Controlled clinical trials of acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine use in human gestation are not available. Chlorpheniramine use during pregnancy has been associated with reassuring animal and human data; however, second-generation antihistamines are preferred over first-generation antihistamines. Loratadine and oral cetirizine are acceptable alternatives based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy. Both the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM) recommend acetaminophen as the first-line pharmacological therapy for pain and/or fever during pregnancy; use at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible time. Counsel pregnant patients to limit long-term or high-dose use to indications discussed with a health care provider. Published epidemiological studies of oral acetaminophen have not reported a clear association with acetaminophen use during pregnancy and birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Large observational studies of newborns exposed to oral acetaminophen during the first trimester have not shown an increased risk for congenital malformations or major birth defects; however, these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of risk because of methodological limitations.


Interactions

Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Amikacin: (Minor) Chlorpheniramine may effectively mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
Aminoglycosides: (Minor) Chlorpheniramine may effectively mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when amoxapine is used concomitantly with drugs are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature Additive sedation may also occur.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Antacids: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Minor) Use caution if acetaminophen and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in acetaminophen-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Acetaminophen is a minor (10 to 15%) substrate of CYP3A4. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of acetaminophen. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and chlorpheniramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with chlorpheniramine as there is a potential for elevated chlorpheniramine and cobicistat concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate/inhibitor. Cobicistat is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Azelastine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression.
Baclofen: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including skeletal muscle relaxants, such as baclofen.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and belladonna use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and benztropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs because of the potential for additive pharmacological effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs because of the potential for additive pharmacological effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Busulfan: (Moderate) Use busulfan and acetaminophen together with caution; concomitant use may result in increased busulfan levels and increased busulfan toxicity. Separating the administration of these drugs may mitigate this interaction; avoid giving acetaminophen within 72 hours prior to or concurrently with busulfan. Busulfan is metabolized in the liver through conjugation with glutathione; acetaminophen decreases glutathione levels in the blood and tissues and may reduce the clearance of busulfan.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with sedating H1-blockers can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on CNS and/or respiratory depression. Use together with caution. If a CNS depressant needs to be used with butorphanol, use the smallest effective dose and the longest dosing frequency of butorphanol.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and sedating H1-blockers. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
carBAMazepine: (Minor) Carbamazepine may potentially accelerate the hepatic metabolism of acetaminophen. In addition, due to enzyme induction, carbamazepine may increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Clinicians should be alert to decreased effect of acetaminophen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary, and closer monitoring of clinical and/or adverse effects is warranted.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for chlorpheniramine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of chlorpheniramine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Charcoal: (Minor) Activated charcoal binds many drugs within the gut. Administering charcoal dietary supplements at the same time as a routine acetaminophen dosage would be expected to interfere with the analgesic and antipyretic efficacy of acetaminophen. Charcoal is mostly used in the setting of acetaminophen overdose; however, patients should never try to treat an acetaminophen overdose with charcoal dietary supplements. Advise patients to get immediate medical attention for an acetaminophen overdose.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of chloroprocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue chloroprocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when chlorpromazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Prolonged concurrent use of acetaminophen and salicylates is not recommended. Although salicylates are rarely associated with nephrotoxicity, high-dose, chronic administration of salicylates combined other analgesics, including acetaminophen, significantly increases the risk of analgesic nephropathy, renal papillary necrosis, and end-stage renal disease. Additive hepatic toxicity may occur, especially in combined overdose situations. Do not exceed the recommended individual maximum doses when these agents are given concurrently for short-term therapy.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, may cause drowsiness or other CNS effects. Additive drowsiness may occur when clobazam is combined with CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. In addition, caution is recommended when administering clobazam with medications extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 such as diphenhydramine because clobazam has been shown to inhibit CYP2D6 in vivo and may increase concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine exhibits clinically significant anticholinergic effects and sedation that may be additive with other medications that may cause anticholinergic effects and sedation, including antihistamines such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines and to avoid tasks requiring mental alertness until they are aware of the effects of the combination.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with chlorpheniramine as there is a potential for elevated chlorpheniramine and cobicistat concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate/inhibitor. Cobicistat is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Cyclobenzaprine and sedating antihistamines such as chlorpheniramine both exhibit anticholinergic activity, and anticholinergic side effects can be additive. Monitor for anticholinergic-related effects such as constipation and urinary retention. Additive CNS depression causing sedation and/or dizziness is also possible. Dosage adjustments of either or both drugs may be necessary.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect (e.g., drowsiness) may occur when dantrolene is combined with other CNS depressants.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Coadministration of dapsone with acetaminophen may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Advise patients to discontinue treatment and seek immediate medical attention with any signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with chlorpheniramine as there is a potential for elevated chlorpheniramine and cobicistat concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate/inhibitor. Cobicistat is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with chlorpheniramine as there is a potential for elevated chlorpheniramine and cobicistat concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate/inhibitor. Cobicistat is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Desflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Desloratadine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as chlorpheniramine, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Consider a dosage reduction for dexmedetomidine or the sedating antihistamine during concomitant use due to the risk of additive CNS effects.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and dicyclomine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Acetaminophen plasma concentrations can increase by approximately 50% following administration of diflunisal. Acetaminophen has no effect on diflunisal concentrations. Acetaminophen in high doses has been associated with severe hepatotoxic reactions; therefore, caution should be exercised when using these agents concomitantly.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of sedating H1-blockers may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including disopyramide. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and donepezil should be avoided if possible. Donepezil inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of donepezil.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and donepezil should be avoided if possible. Donepezil inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of donepezil.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and doxorubicin is a major CYP2D6 substrate. Clinically significant interactions have been reported when doxorubicin was coadministered with inhibitors of CYP2D6, resulting in increased concentration and clinical effect of doxorubicin. Avoid coadministration of chlorpheniramine and doxorubicin if possible. If not possible, closely monitor for increased side effects of doxorubicin including myelosuppression and cardiotoxicity.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and doxorubicin is a major CYP2D6 substrate. Clinically significant interactions have been reported when doxorubicin was coadministered with inhibitors of CYP2D6, resulting in increased concentration and clinical effect of doxorubicin. Avoid coadministration of chlorpheniramine and doxorubicin if possible. If not possible, closely monitor for increased side effects of doxorubicin including myelosuppression and cardiotoxicity.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with antihistamines is necessary. Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with antihistamines may result in additive drowsiness, hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers have additive or potentiating sedative and other CNS effects with droperidol. Following administration of droperidol, lower doses of the other CNS depressant may need to be used.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Efavirenz: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Eliglustat: (Major) In extensive or intermediate CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs or IMs), coadministration of scheduled chlorpheniramine and eliglustat requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily during the course of antihistamine treatment; however, coadministration of eliglustat with both chlorpheniramine and a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor is contraindicated. It is unclear whether a single dose of chlorpheniramine warrants modification of eliglustat therapy. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6; eliglustat is also a substrate and inhibitor of CYP2D6 as well as a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration of eliglustat with CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as chlorpheniramine, may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias); the effects of a single chlorpheniramine dose are unknown. In addition, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP2D6 substrates (e.g., chlorpheniramine) may result in increased concentrations of the concomitant drug; monitor patients closely for anticholinergic adverse events.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is a UDP-glucuronyltransferase inhibitor. Acetaminophen is a substrate of UDP-glucuronyltransferases. The significance or effect of this interaction is not known; however, elevated concentrations of acetaminophen are possible. Monitor patients for adverse reactions if these drugs are coadministered.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with chlorpheniramine as there is a potential for elevated chlorpheniramine and cobicistat concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate/inhibitor. Cobicistat is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with chlorpheniramine as there is a potential for elevated chlorpheniramine and cobicistat concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate/inhibitor. Cobicistat is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone and concomitantly administered CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression. (Major) The risk of developing hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen appears to be increased in patients who regularly consume alcohol. Patients who drink more than 3 alcohol-containing drinks a day and take acetaminophen are at increased risk of developing hepatotoxicity. Acute or chronic alcohol use increases acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by inducing CYP2E1 leading to increased formation of the hepatotoxic metabolite of acetaminophen. Also, chronic alcohol use can deplete liver glutathione stores. Administration of acetaminophen should be limited or avoided altogether in patients with alcoholism or patients who consume alcohol regularly.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Etomidate: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with everolimus is necessary. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and everolimus is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Exenatide: (Minor) Although an interaction is possible, these drugs may be used together. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least 1 hour prior to an exenatide injection. When 1,000 mg acetaminophen elixir was given with 10 mcg exenatide (at 0 hours) and at 1, 2 and 4 hours after exenatide injection, acetaminophen AUCs were decreased by 21%, 23%, 24%, and 14%, respectively; Cmax was decreased by 37%, 56%, 54%, and 41%, respectively. Additionally, acetaminophen Tmax was delayed from 0.6 hours in the control period to 0.9, 4.2, 3.3, and 1.6 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before exenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying from exenatide use) and the clinical impact has not been assessed.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and chlorpheniramine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and flavoxate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, may increase the risk of CNS depression (e.g., dizziness, somnolence) compared to the use of flibanserin alone. Patients should avoid activities requiring full alertness (e.g., operating machinery or driving) until at least 6 hours after each dose and until they know how flibanserin affects them.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Additive sedative effects may be seen when fluphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosphenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of chlorpheniramine and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Galantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Gentamicin: (Minor) Chlorpheniramine may effectively mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants such as the sedating H1-blockers. Additive anticholinergic effects may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or CNS effects may also occur.
Heparin: (Minor) Antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant actions of heparin, according to the product labels. However, this interaction is not likely of clinical significance since heparin therapy is adjusted to the partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and other clinical parameters of the patient.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and homatropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hydantoins: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when iloperidone is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Imatinib: (Major) Imatinib, STI-571 may affect the metabolism of acetaminophen. In vitro, imatinib was found to inhibit acetaminophen O-glucuronidation at therapeutic levels. Therefore, systemic exposure to acetaminophen is expected to be increased with coadministration of imatinib. Chronic acetaminophen therapy should be avoided in patients receiving imatinib.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with acetaminophen may result in increased serum concentrations of acetaminophen. Acetaminophen is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Isoflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Agents which induce the hepatic isoenzyme CYP2E1, such as isoniazid, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolites. The combination of isoniazid and acetaminophen has caused severe hepatotoxicity in at least one patient; studies in rats have demonstrated that pre-treatment with isoniazid potentiates acetaminophen hepatotoxicity.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant isoproterenol and chlorpheniramine use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the effects of isoproterenol.
Ketamine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for possible loss of lamotrigine efficacy and seizure activity during coadministration with acetaminophen. Acetaminophen may induce glucuronidation pathways involved in lamotrigine metabolism. During a study among 12 healthy volunteers, concomitant administration of acetaminophen 4 g/day with lamotrigine at steady-state increased the formation clearance of lamotrigine glucuronide conjugates by 45%, decreased lamotrigine AUC by 20%, and reduced lamotrigine trough concentrations by 25%.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with lemborexant.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lithium: (Moderate) Because lithium has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills, caution is advisable during concurrent use of other medications with centrally-acting effects including the sedating antihistamines.
Lixisenatide: (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and chlorpheniramine. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or performing any other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the combination are known.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of chlorpheniramine with ritonavir may result in elevated plasma concentrations of chlorpheniramine. Chlorpheniramine is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP2D6; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Monitor for adverse effects if these drugs are administered together.
Loratadine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are associated with anticholinergic effects and sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having anticholinergic activity and CNS depressant properties such as traditional antipsychotic agents, including loxapine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and chlorpheniramine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of lurasidone, caution should be used when lurasidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications. Sedating H1-blockers are associated with sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having CNS depressant properties such as antipsychotics. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Magnesium Salts: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Meclizine: (Major) Meclizine is an H1-blocker which exhibits significant anticholinergic effects. The anticholinergic effects of meclizine may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with antimuscarinic activity, including other sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive sedation may also occur.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of melatonin and sedating H1-blockers due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mepivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue mepivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Methadone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
metyraPONE: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with sedating H1-blockers can result in additive sedative effects.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Mirabegron is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 isoenzymes such as chlorpheniramine may be increased when co-administered with mirabegron. Therefore, appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Consistent with the CNS depressant effects of mirtazapine, additive effects may occur with other CNS depressants such as chlorpheniramine. Mirtazapine should be administered cautiously with such agents because the CNS effects on cognitive performance and motor skills can be additive.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Molindone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Morphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the effects of nalbuphine on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect of nebivolol if coadministered with chlorpheniramine. Nebivolol is metabolized by CYP2D6. Although data are lacking, CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as chlorpheniramine, could potentially increase nebivolol plasma concentrations via CYP2D6 inhibition; the clinical significance of this potential interaction is unknown, but an increase in adverse effects is possible.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including nefazodone.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of chlorpheniramine with ritonavir may result in elevated plasma concentrations of chlorpheniramine. Chlorpheniramine is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP2D6; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Monitor for adverse effects if these drugs are administered together.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine is metabolized by CYP2D6; oritavancin is a weak CYP2D6 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of chlorpheniramine may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and oxybutynin use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Coadministration of drugs with CNS depressant effects, including paliperidone and chlorpheniramine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Monitor for signs and symptoms of CNS depression and advise patients to avoid driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Paromomycin: (Minor) Chlorpheniramine may effectively mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibiting antidepressants (SSRIs), paroxetine is considered the most anticholinergic. Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when paroxetine is used with antihistamines having anticholinergic properties such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to chlorpheniramine if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Use pentazocine with caution in any patient receiving medication with CNS depressant and/or anticholinergic activity. Coadministration of pentazocine with sedating H1-blockers may result in additive respiratory and CNS depression and anticholinergic effects, such as urinary retention and constipation.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Phenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Due to the effects of pimozide on cognition, it should be used cautiously with other CNS depressants including sedating antihistamines. Sedating H1-blockers are associated with anticholinergic effects and sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with pimozide. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Plazomicin: (Minor) Chlorpheniramine may effectively mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole and acetaminophen should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for acetaminophen-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of acetaminophen. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for acetaminophen-related adverse events.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pramipexole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of pramipexole.
Pramlintide: (Minor) Because pramlintide has the potential to delay the absorption of concomitantly administered medications, medications should be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after pramlintide injection when the rapid onset of a concomitantly administered oral medication is a critical determinant of effectiveness (i.e., analgesics).
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of chlorpheniramine and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Chlorpheniramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Primidone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Procarbazine: (Moderate) Use procarbazine and sedating H1-blockers together with caution; additive central nervous system depression may occur.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when prochlorperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Propofol: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of quetiapine. Co-administration of quetiapine with sedating H1-blockers may result in additive effects. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as ramelteon.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and sedating H1-blockers (sedating antihistamines) may result in additive sedation, anticholinergic effects, or hypotensive reactions. Rasagiline may be less likely to produce these interactions than other MAOIs, due to MAO-B selectivity. However, consider alternatives therapy to antihistamines where possible. If alternative combinations are not available, these medications may be used together with close monitoring. Many non-prescription products for coughs, colds, allergy, hay fever or insomnia contain sedating antihistamines. Patients receiving rasagiline should be counseled that it is essential to consult their healthcare provider or pharmacist prior to the use of any non-prescription products. Patients should also be advised against driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of acetaminophen with rifampin may increase the known risk of hepatotoxicity in relation to each drug. Severe hepatic dysfunction including fatalities were reported in patients taking rifampin with other hepatotoxic agents.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution is advisable when risperidone is given with other centrally acting medications including sedating H1-blockers such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed of the risk of driving or performing other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of these medicines are known.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of chlorpheniramine with ritonavir may result in elevated plasma concentrations of chlorpheniramine. Chlorpheniramine is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP2D6; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Monitor for adverse effects if these drugs are administered together.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and rivastigmine should be avoided if possible. Rivastigmine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of rivastigmine.
Rolapitant: (Major) Use caution if products containing chlorpheniramine and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for chlorpheniramine-related adverse effects. Consider if another antihistamine would be a better choice for treatment. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and rolapitant is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant is expected to persist beyond 28 days for an unknown duration. Exposure to another CYP2D6 substrate, following a single dose of rolapitant increased about 3-fold on Days 8 and Day 22. The inhibition of CYP2D6 persisted on Day 28 with a 2.3-fold increase in the CYP2D6 substrate concentrations, the last time point measured.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue ropivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of selegiline and chlorpheniramine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Sevoflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by concurrent medications, including H1-blockers. False study results are possible; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Depending on the specific agent, additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like solifenacin are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as sedating H1 blockers.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Minor) St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum induces cytochrome P450 1A2. About 10 to 15% of the acetaminophen dose undergoes oxidative metabolism via cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2E1, 3A4 and 1A2, which produces the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinonimine. Thus, theoretically St. John's wort might increase the risk of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to NAPQI.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and chlorpheniramine. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
Streptomycin: (Minor) Chlorpheniramine may effectively mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as tasimelteon.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Terbinafine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with terbinafine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and terbinafine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tetracaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue tetracaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with opiate agonists; antihistamines; antipsychotics; anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics; and other central nervous system depressants due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when thioridazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when antipsychotics, such as thiothixene, are used concomitantly with other drugs such as sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Tobramycin: (Minor) Chlorpheniramine may effectively mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with chlorpheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with chlorpheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
traZODone: (Moderate) Antihistamines that may cause sedation, such as chlorpheniramine, should be used cautiously in patients receiving trazodone because of additive CNS-depressant effects.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when trifluoperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and trihexyphenidyl use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and acetaminophen may result in altered concentrations of acetaminophen. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 and CYP2A6, and an inducer of CYP3A4. Acetaminophen is a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy. (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and chlorpheniramine may result in increased chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is metabolized by CYP2D6 and vemurafenib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Monitor patients for toxicity.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given with sedating H1-blockers.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Also, Cyproheptadine is an antagonist of serotonin in the CNS, a property which may oppose some of the pharmacologic effects of vilazodone. Cyproheptadine has been used for the management of orgasm dysfunction caused by the serotonergic antidepressants and for the adjunctive treatment of serotonin syndrome; however, a reversal of antidepressant effects may occur when cyproheptadine is given in a routine manner along with the antidepressant. Clinically, cyproheptadine reportedly has interfered with the antidepressant and anti-bulimia actions of fluoxetine, but more data are needed to confirm a direct drug-drug interaction.
Warfarin: (Minor) Although acetaminophen is routinely considered safer than aspirin and agent of choice when a mild analgesic/antipyretic is necessary for a patient receiving therapy with warfarin, acetaminophen has also been shown to augment the hypoprothrombinemic response to warfarin. Concomitant acetaminophen ingestion may result in increases in the INR in a dose-related fashion. Clinical bleeding has been reported. Single doses or short (i.e., several days) courses of treatment with acetaminophen are probably safe in most patients taking warfarin. Clinicians should be alert for an increased INR if acetaminophen is administered in large daily doses for longer than 10 to 14 days.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zaleplon due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are associated with sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having CNS depressant properties such as antipsychotics. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur with ziprasidone.
ZOLMitriptan: (Minor) Zolmitriptan can delay the Tmax of acetaminophen by one hour. A single 1 g dose of acetaminophen does not alter the pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan and its active metabolite. The interaction between zolmitriptan and acetaminophen is not likely to be clinically significant.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zolpidem due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary. Limit the dose of Intermezzo sublingual tablets to 1.75 mg/day.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.


Adverse Reaction
anxiety, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria, excitability, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, irritability, neuritis, paresthesias, restlessness, seizures, tremor


Possible central nervous system (CNS) side effects of antihistamines are drowsiness, fatigue, confusion, restlessness, dizziness, disturbed coordination, headache, nervousness, euphoria, paresthesias, neuritis, and tremor. Alternatively, H1-antagonists can cause paradoxical CNS stimulation manifested as nervousness/anxiety, excitability, irritability, insomnia, hallucinations, or seizures. These reactions may occur more frequently in children and with the use of high doses. Tolerance to CNS effects may occur with repeated use.  


medication overuse headache, withdrawal


Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including acetaminophen, may lead to medication overuse headache. Patients may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise patients about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of acetaminophen for at least 15 days/month or any combination of therapy for at least 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use. Pediatric guidelines recommend no more than 14 days/month of over-the-counter medication and no more than 9 days/month of any combination of therapy to avoid medication overuse headache.


constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia


Possible gastrointestinal side effects of antihistamines are epigastric distress, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, and xerostomia.


interstitial nephritis, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis


Acetaminophen has been associated with chronic analgesic nephropathy, a condition characterized by interstitial nephritis and renal papillary necrosis in patients receiving large doses of analgesics for an extended period of time. Though the National Kidney Foundation states there is negligible evidence to suggest chronic acetaminophen use causes analgesic nephropathy, they have recognized a weak association between chronic use and the prevalence of chronic renal failure and end-stage renal disease. In addition, acetaminophen overdose can result in acute renal failure and renal tubular necrosis, though such toxicity rarely occurs without severe hepatic toxicity. The risk of renal complications appears to be higher in patients with poor nutrition, chronic alcohol consumption, or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid).


agranulocytosis, hemolysis, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis


Sporadic case reports of agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, neutropenia, and pancytopenia have been described in patients taking acetaminophen. Drug-induced hemolysis and hemolytic anemia have been associated with acetaminophen overdose in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Though several case reports of hemolytic anemia in G6PD-deficient patients receiving therapeutic doses of acetaminophen exist, a direct cause and effect relationship has not been well established. Monitor G6PD-deficient patients presenting with acetaminophen toxicity closely for signs and symptoms of hemolysis. Possible hematologic side effects of antihistamines include agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, and thrombocytopenia.


acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, contact dermatitis, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, hyperhidrosis, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, rash, skin irritation, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Acetaminophen has been associated with a risk of rare but serious and sometimes fatal skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). These reactions can occur at any time during acetaminophen use, even after the first dose. Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) occurred in a 7-year-old girl after she took 3 doses of oral acetaminophen to treat a fever and sore throat. Twelve hours after the last dose, an erythematous rash appeared, which became generalized and vesicular over the next few hours. The patient developed a fever, low blood pressure, and an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and liver function tests. Skin biopsy was positive for subepidermal blister formation with full-thickness necrolysis of the epidermis. Acetaminophen rechallenge, performed 6 months later in an allergy clinic, produced similar symptoms within 30 minutes of administration and confirmed the initial diagnosis. SJS and TEN usually begin with flu-like symptoms followed by rash, blistering, and sloughing, all of which spread from the face downwards to the entire body (including palms of hands and soles of feet); recovery ranges from weeks to months and complications include corneal ulcerations, blindness, and internal organ damage. AGEP is typically a less severe reaction, characterized by acute onset, fever, and nonfollicular pustules on an erythematous rash; it usually resolves within 2 weeks of drug discontinuation. In addition to the aforementioned skin reactions, multiple cases of allergic contact dermatitis (delayed hypersensitivity type) have been reported in the literature. Various reactions, including generalized pruriginous micropapular eruption, facial edema, generalized pruriginous exanthem, exfoliative dermatitis, and generalized exanthema occurred within several hours after acetaminophen ingestion. Hypersensitivity reactions to acetaminophen may be manifested by urticaria, erythema, rash, maculopapular rash, and fever. Though rare, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. Discontinue acetaminophen immediately and seek medical attention for symptomatic treatment in patients who develop dermatologic or hypersensitivity reactions. Side effects of antihistamines may include urticaria, drug rash, anaphylactic shock, photosensitivity, and hyperhidrosis. Skin irritation/dermatitis is very rarely associated with antihistamines.


purpura


A case of acquired purpura fulminans developed in a 32-year-old woman who was instructed to take acetaminophen 1,000 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. The patient noted rapidly spreading purpuric lesions and associated edema. Her lesions were nonblanchable and enlarging, and she had multiple purplish-black hemorrhagic and necrotic areas. Purpura fulminans is usually associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation and can occur in patients with inherited or acquired deficiencies of the protein C anticoagulant pathway. Based on the patient's history of alcohol use and poor nutritional status, the authors concluded that reduced hepatic glutathione stores were further reduced by the introduction of acetaminophen, leading to impaired protein C and S synthesis and propagation of the disseminated intravascular coagulation cascade. Discontinuation of alcohol and acetaminophen and administration of vitamin K, heparin, and a systemic antibiotic led to almost complete purpuric lesion and hepatotoxicity resolution in 6 days.


elevated creatine kinase, rhabdomyolysis


Acetaminophen-induced rhabdomyolysis has been described in a case report. A 17-year-old male with a past medical history of drug-induced reactions (hepatitis, agranulocytosis, desquamative dermatitis, and pyrexia) after receiving acetaminophen with or without concurrent antibiotics, was rechallenged with oral acetaminophen 400 mg. Within 5 hours of administration, the adolescent presented with febrile exanthema, neutropenia, and elevated creatine kinase, C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, and interleukin-10; the skin eruption and fever lasted 36 hours. Investigate symptoms such as unusual tiredness, weakness or unusual pain and swelling of the extremities, nausea and vomiting, and dark-colored urine promptly.


hearing loss, tinnitus, vertigo


Prospective studies have shown there to be a slight but consistent association between regular analgesic use and hearing loss. Acetaminophen-related ototoxicity may result from depletion of glutathione, which protects the cochlea from noise damage. As a true long-term association may exist, counsel patients to minimize long-term treatment with acetaminophen as much as possible. A prospective analysis examining the association between analgesic use and the risk of hearing loss was conducted in 62,261 women 31 to 48 years of age at study enrollment who were originally enrolled in the Nurses' Health Study II. The association between self-reported hearing loss and analgesic use (including acetaminophen, aspirin, and NSAIDs) was examined over 14 years. During 764,247 person-years of follow-up, 10,012 cases of hearing loss were reported. After adjustment for confounders, acetaminophen use 2 or more days per week was independently associated with an increased risk of hearing loss, with the relative risk of hearing loss increasing with increasing frequency of use. Acetaminophen use 2 to 3, 4 to 5, or 6 or more days per week was associated with relative risks of 1.11 (95% CI 1.02 to 1.19), 1.21 (95% CI 1.07 to 1.37), and 1.08 (95% CI 0.95 to 1.22), respectively (p = 0.0007). Of note, those with more frequent use of acetaminophen had higher body mass indices; were more likely to smoke, have hypertension, or have diabetes; and were less physically active. In a similar study in male patients, the association between professionally diagnosed hearing loss and analgesic use (including acetaminophen, aspirin, and NSAIDs) was prospectively analyzed in 26,917 patients 40 to 74 years of age at study enrollment over 18 years. During 369,079 person-years of follow-up, 3,488 cases of hearing loss were reported. After adjustment for confounders, the hazard ratio (HR) for acetaminophen-associated hearing loss was 1.22 (95% CI 1.07 to 1.39, p = 0.09) in patients who were regular users of the drug (at least 2 times weekly) compared to those with less use. Men who regularly used acetaminophen for 4 years or more were 33% (14% to 56%) more likely to develop hearing loss than those with shorter use. In men younger than 50 years, the HR of hearing loss was 1.99 (95% CI 1.34 to 2.95); the degree of association generally decreased with aging. These studies do suggest association; however, data are based on patient reporting of the outcomes. Information regarding noise exposure and analgesic doses was not provided. Possible side effects of antihistamines include tinnitus and vertigo.


hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia


Possible cardiovascular side effects with antihistamines include hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, and extra systoles.


blurred vision, diplopia


Antihistamines may cause blurred vision and diplopia.


dysuria, polyuria, urinary retention


Antihistamines may cause polyuria, dysuria, urinary retention, and early menses.


bronchial secretions, chills, nasal congestion, nasal dryness, weakness, wheezing


Weakness, chills, tightness of chest, wheezing, throat and nasal dryness, and nasal congestion are possible side effects of antihistamines. Thickening of bronchial secretions is among the most frequent adverse reactions reported with antihistamines.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, myocarditis


The hepatic effects of acetaminophen are well-known. In a study of combined data collected over a 5-year period (1998 to 2003) from 22 specialty medical centers in the United States, acetaminophen-induced liver injury was the leading cause of acute hepatic failure. Unintentional overdose accounted for almost half of the reported cases; acetaminophen toxicity may occur as the result of acute overdose or chronic excessive dosing. Severe liver damage may occur when more than the recommended maximum acetaminophen daily dosage is exceeded, with concurrent use of more than 3 alcohol-containing beverages per day, or if there is concurrent use of multiple acetaminophen-containing products. Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for pediatric patients if overdosage occurs, even if the patient has no signs or symptoms or feels well.  Children appear to be at less risk of developing hepatotoxicity, possibly because of an age-related difference in the metabolism of the drug. Acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity is manifested as hepatic necrosis, jaundice, and hepatic encephalopathy; hepatic failure may occur. Early nonspecific symptoms include nausea/vomiting, anorexia, abdominal pain, and malaise. After acute overdose, elevated hepatic enzymes occur within 12 to 36 hours and maximal liver damage and hepatic impairment peak 3 to 5 days after ingestion. GI bleeding can occur secondary to hypoprothrombinemia. Administration of intravenous vitamin K is recommended for hypoprothrombinemia due to acetaminophen overdosage. If more than 150 to 200 mg/kg, 10 g, or an unknown amount of acetaminophen is ingested, obtain a serum acetaminophen concentration 4 hours after ingestion or as soon as possible thereafter. Promptly administer N-acetylcysteine (NAC), which serves as a substitute sulfhydryl donor for glutathione, if the acetaminophen concentration plots above the treatment line on the Rumack-Matthew nomogram. NAC treatment should begin immediately if the estimated time after ingestion approaches 8 hours. Avoid acetaminophen misuse; do not exceed recommended doses and account for intake from all sources (e.g., single-entity products and combination products). Excessive acetaminophen exposure, malnutrition, concurrent ethanol consumption (acute and chronic), and/or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid) may lead to greater exposure of the toxic metabolite, N-acetyl-para-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI), and increase the risk for toxicity. Other reactions have included fatal heart failure due to toxic myocarditis after an unspecified intentional overdose of acetaminophen.


Description

Acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine is an oral combination of an analgesic/antipyretic and antihistamine indicated for the treatment of fever, headache, minor aches and pains, rhinorrhea, and sneezing. Administration of acetaminophen in doses higher than recommended may result in hepatic injury, including the risk of liver failure and death; therefore, the maximum recommended daily dose of acetaminophen is not to be exceeded. The maximum recommended daily dose of acetaminophen includes all routes of acetaminophen administration and all acetaminophen-containing products administered, including combination products. Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Chlorpheniramine is an antihistamine with anticholinergic and sedative effects; excitability may occur, especially in children.

Mechanism Of Action

Acetaminophen acts within the CNS to increase the pain threshold by inhibiting central cyclooxygenase, an enzyme involved in prostaglandin (PG) synthesis. Acetaminophen inhibits both isoforms of central cyclooxygenase, COX-1 and COX-2. Acetaminophen does not inhibit PG synthesis in peripheral tissues, which is the reason for its lack of peripheral anti-inflammatory effects. Chlorpheniramine is an H1-antagonist belonging to the alkylamine class of antihistamines. Antihistamines appear to compete with histamine for receptor sites on effector cells. Chlorpheniramine also has anticholinergic (drying) and sedative effects. Among the antihistaminic effects, it antagonizes the allergic response (vasodilatation, increased vascular permeability, increased mucus secretion) of nasal tissue.

Pharmacokinetics


Acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine is administered orally. At therapeutic concentrations, acetaminophen protein binding is about 10% to 25%. Acetaminophen is widely distributed throughout most body tissues except fat; low protein binding and molecular weight allow blood-brain barrier penetration. Vd is approximately 1 L/kg in children and adults. Acetaminophen is primarily metabolized in the liver by first-order kinetics and involves 3 separate pathways: glucuronidation, sulfate conjugation, and cytochrome P450 (CYP450) oxidation. Glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation are the major routes of metabolism, while a small amount of drug undergoes oxidative metabolism via CYP2E1 producing the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI). At therapeutic doses, NAPQI is rapidly conjugated with glutathione to form inert cysteine and mercapturic acid metabolites. The P450 isoenzymes 1A2 and 3A4 appear to have a minor role in the metabolism of acetaminophen. Supratherapeutic or repeated therapeutic doses of acetaminophen, fasting, and alcoholism may deplete glutathione stores, leading to increased concentrations of NAPQI and hepatotoxicity. Acetaminophen is renally excreted primarily as the glucuronide conjugate (40% to 65%) and sulfate metabolite (25% to 35%). Mercapturic acid and cysteine metabolites account for 5% to 12% of the urinary metabolites; less than 5% is excreted as unchanged drug. The elimination half-life of acetaminophen is 2 to 3 hours in healthy adult patients. Chlorpheniramine is widely distributed throughout the tissues of the body, including the central nervous system. It has an apparent steady-state Vd of approximately 3.2 L/kg in adults and children and is about 70% bound to plasma proteins. Chlorpheniramine is rapidly and extensively metabolized via demethylation in the liver, forming mono-and didesmethyl derivatives. Oxidative metabolism of chlorpheniramine is catalyzed by CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine and its metabolites are primarily excreted through the kidneys, with large individual variation. Urinary excretion depends on urine pH and flow rate. The mean plasma half-life of chlorpheniramine is approximately 21 to 24 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, CYP2E1
Although acetaminophen is primarily metabolized via glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation, it is also a substrate of CYP2E1. Drugs that induce CYP2E1 may increase the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite and therefore increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Because CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 have negligible contribution to acetaminophen metabolism, the enzymes are unlikely to affect toxic metabolite formation. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate.


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Immediate-release acetaminophen is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, primarily the small intestine. Bioavailability ranges from 85% to 98%. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 30 to 60 minutes and range from 7.7 to 17.6 mcg/mL after a single 1,000 mg dose and 7.9 to 27 mcg/mL at steady-state after 1,000 mg every 6 hours in adult patients. In a study of febrile children 2 to 7 years of age, acetaminophen 12 mg/kg achieved maximum concentration (14.6 +/- 2.6 mcg/mL) within 0.55 +/- 0.08 hours. Maximum concentrations of acetaminophen are delayed with concurrent food administration, however the extent of absorption is not affected. Chlorpheniramine mean peak plasma concentration of 58.4 ng/mL occurred at 6.3 hours after multiple dosing.

Hepatic Impairment

The half-life of acetaminophen may be prolonged in patients with hepatic disease. Chlorpheniramine is extensively metabolized by liver before elimination from the body. Hepatic impairment may lead to the risk of decreased metabolism and thereby increased systemic concentrations of chlorpheniramine.

Renal Impairment

In severe renal impairment (CrCl 10 to 30 mL/minute), the elimination of acetaminophen is slightly delayed, with an elimination half-life of 2 to 5.3 hours. In addition, the elimination of sulfate and glucuronide conjugates is 3 times slower in patients with severe renal impairment than in healthy subjects, leading to potential accumulation. Chlorpheniramine is cleared substantially by the kidney. Renal impairment may lead to the risk of decreased clearance and thereby increased retention or systemic concentrations of chlorpheniramine.

Pediatrics

Children and Adolescents
Acetaminophen is excreted primarily as the sulfate conjugate in children, due to a deficiency in glucuronide formation in younger pediatric patients. The relative contribution of sulfate and glucuronide conjugation changes with age and normal adult ratios (2:1 glucuronide to sulfate conjugates) are reached by 12 years of age.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


No specific administration precautions apply.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

3,900 mg/day PO acetaminophen; 24 mg/day PO chlorpheniramine.

Geriatric

3,900 mg/day PO acetaminophen; 24 mg/day PO chlorpheniramine.

Adolescents

3,900 mg/day PO acetaminophen; 24 mg/day PO chlorpheniramine.

Children

12 years: 3,900 mg/day PO acetaminophen; 24 mg/day PO chlorpheniramine.
6 to 11 years: 1,625 mg/day PO acetaminophen; 10 mg/day PO chlorpheniramine.
1 to 5 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Alka-Seltzer Plus Cold & Cough Maximum Strength Liquid Gel Capsule

Alka-Seltzer Plus Severe Cold & Flu Effervescent Tablet (Citrus)

Alka-Seltzer Severe Cold & Flu Effervescent Tablet (Citrus)

BC Sinus Congestion & Pain 650mg-4mg-10mg Powder

Comtrex Cold and Cough Day/Night Caplet

Comtrex Cold and Cough Nighttime Caplet

Comtrex Flu Therapy Day and Night Caplet

Comtrex Nighttime Cold And Cough Liquid (Orange)

Coricidin HBP Cold & Flu Tablet

Coricidin HBP Cold and Flu Tablet

Coricidin HBP Day/Night Multi-Symptom Cold Combo Pack

Coricidin HBP Flu Maximum Strength Tablet

Coricidin HBP Flu Maximum Strength Tablet

Coricidin HBP Maximum Strength Multi-Symptom Flu 325mg-2mg-10mg Tablet

CVS Allergy Relief Daytime Multi-Symptom Rapid Release Gelcap

CVS Children's Cold Relief Suspension (Grape)

CVS Children's Cough & Runny Nose Suspension

CVS Children's Flu Relief Suspension (Bubblegum)

CVS Children's Multi-Symptom Cold Plus Pain Relief Suspension (Grape)

CVS Children's Pain Relief Plus Multi-Symptom Cold Suspension (Grape)

CVS Cold & Flu HBP 325mg-2mg Tablet

CVS Cold Relief Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cool Blast Caplet

CVS Cold Relief Nighttime Cool Caplet

CVS Flu HBP Maximum Strength 325mg-2mg-10mg Caplet

CVS Flu HBP Maximum Strength Tablet

CVS Head Congestion Cold Relief Daytime/Nightime Cool Blast Caplet

CVS Sinus Congestion & Pain Daytime/Nightime Cool Blast Caplet

CVS Sinus Congestion & Pain Nighttime Cool Blast Caplet

Diabetic Tussin Cold and Flu 325mg-4mg-15mg Gelcap

FLONASE Headache and Allergy Relief 325mg-2mg-5mg Relief Caplet

Foster & Thrive Allergy Multi-Symptom 325mg-2mg-5mg Cool Taste Caplet

Giltuss Children's Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu Solution (Strawberry)

Giltuss Multi-Symptom Cold & Flu 650mg-4mg-13mg-10mg/10mL Solution (Strawberry)

GNP Adult Allergy Multi-Symptom 325mg-2mg-5mg Cool Taste Caplet

GNP Cold Max Day/Night Cool Taste Caplet

GoodSense Allergy Multi-Symptom Cool Ice Caplet

GoodSense Cold Max Multi-Symptom Day/Night Cool Taste Caplet

Leader Allergy Multi-Symptom 325mg-2mg-5mg Caplet

Leader Allergy Multi-Symptom Cool Ice Caplet

Leader Cold Head Congestion Nighttime Cool Caplet (Cool Blast)

Leader Cold Head Congestion Nighttime Cool Ice Caplet

Leader Flu HBP Maximum Strength Caplet

Medique Medicidin-D Cold & Allergy Relief Tablet

Premier Value Allergy Multi-Symptom Cool Taste Caplet

Premier Value Children's Plus Cold Multi-Symptom Suspension (Grape)

Premier Value Children's Plus Cough and Runny Nose Suspension

Premier Value Cold Head Congestion Nighttime Cool Taste Caplet

Premier Value Cold Multi-Symptom Day/Night Cool Taste Caplet

Premier Value Cold Nighttime Cool Taste Caplet

Premier Value Sinus Pain & Congestion Day/Night Cool Taste Caplet

Publix Allergy Sinus PE Caplet

Publix Cold Relief Head Congestion Day/Night Caplet

Publix Cold Relief Multi-Symptom Day/Night Caplet

Publix Nighttime Cold Caplet

Quality Choice Cold + Flu Severe Daytime/Nighttime Cool Taste Caplet

Quality Choice Cold Max Multi-Symptom Day/Night Cool Taste Caplet

Quality Choice Flu HBP Maximum Strength 325mg-2mg-10mg Caplet

RITE AID Children's Cough & Runny Nose Plus Suspension (Cherry)

RITE AID Children's Flu Relief Plus Suspension (Bubblegum)

RITE AID Children's Multi-Symptom Cold Relief Plus Suspension (Grape)

RITE AID Cold & Flu HBP Tablet

RITE AID Cold and Flu Relief HBP Maximum Strength 500mg-2mg-15mg Tablet

RITE AID Daytime/Nighttime Multi-Symptom Cold Relief Caplet

Theraflu-D Flu Relief Max Strength Nighttime 1000mg-4mg-30mg-60mg/30mL Syrup (Cherry)

Today's Health Children's Plus Cough and Runny Nose Suspension

Top Care Allergy Multi-Symptom Cool Ice Caplet

Top Care Children's Pain Relief Plus Multi-Symptom Cold Suspension (Grape)

Top Care Cold Head Congestion Nighttime Cool Ice Caplet

Top Care Cold Multi-Symptom Nighttime Cool Ice Caplet

Top Care Sinus Congestion and Pain Nighttime Cool Ice Caplet

Triaminic Multi-Symptom Fever 160mg-1mg-7.5mg/5ml Solution

Tylenol Children's Cold + Cough + Runny Nose 160mg-1mg-5mg/5mL Suspension (Grape)

Tylenol Children's Cold Plus Flu Suspension (Bubblegum)

Tylenol Children's Cold Plus Flu Suspension (Grape)

Tylenol Cold + Flu Extra Strength Day and Night Caplet

Tylenol Cold + Flu Severe Day and Night Caplet

Vicks Formula 44 Custom Care Cough & Cold PM Solution (Berry Burst)

Vicks NyQuil Cold & Flu Relief Liquid (Berry)

Walgreens Allergy Multi-Symptom 325mg-2mg-5mg Gelcap

Walgreens Allergy Multi-Symptom Daytime Cool Caplet

Walgreens Allergy Multi-Symptom Daytime Gelcap

Walgreens Allergy Multi-Symptom Night/Day Caplet Combo Pack

Walgreens Children's Cold, Cough & Runny Nose 160mg-1mg-5mg/5mL Suspension

Walgreens Children's Cough & Runny Nose Suspension (Cherry)

Walgreens Children's Multi-Symptom Cold Suspension (Grape)

Walgreens Children's Non-Aspirin Plus Cold & Cough Chewable Tablet

Walgreens Cold Head Congestion Nighttime Cool Caplet

Walgreens Cold Multi-Symptom Daytime/Nighttime Pack Tablet

Walgreens Cold Multi-Symptom Tablet

Walgreens Flu BP Maximum Strength 500mg-2mg-15mg Tablet

Walgreens Flu HBP Maximum Strength Decongestant-Free 325mg-2mg-10mg Caplet

Walgreens Severe Cold & Flu Day/Night Combo Caplet

Walgreens Sinus Congestion and Pain Day/Night Caplet Combo Pack

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Use acetaminophen; chlorpheniramine with caution in people with hepatic dysfunction. Acetaminophen use is not recommended for those with severe hepatic impairment or severe active liver disease. People with stable chronic hepatic disease may receive acetaminophen; use the smallest dose for the shortest duration necessary.

Renal Impairment

CrCl less than 10 mL/minute: Increase the interval of acetaminophen dosage to every 8 hours. No dosage adjustment is necessary for chlorpheniramine
 
Intermittent hemodialysis:
No supplemental dosage is needed. See dosage for CrCl less than 10 mL/minute.

© 2026 Elsevier