=== Benzgalantamine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5546)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Benzgalantamine, a prodrug of galantamine, is a reversible cholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease in adults.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 30 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): av block, bradycardia, hypertension, hypotension, palpitations, syncope, dehydration, gi bleeding, peptic ulcer, weight loss, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dysgeusia, dyskinesia, hallucinations, headache, lethargy, paresthesias, seizures, tremor, asthenia, fatigue, malaise

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Benzgalantamine is also contraindicated in people with a known hypersensitivity to galantamine, the active metabolite of benzgalantamine.

Brand Names
  - ZUNVEYL

Dosage Forms
  - ZUNVEYL 10mg Delayed-Release Tablet
  - ZUNVEYL 15mg Delayed-Release Tablet
  - ZUNVEYL 5mg Delayed-Release Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (delayed-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mg PO twice daily, initially. May increase the dose to 10 mg PO twice daily after at least 4 weeks, and then 15 mg PO twice daily after at least 4 weeks based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 30 mg/day. If therapy is interrupted for more than 3 days, restart the initial titration schedule.
    Heading
    For the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Benzgalantamine is also contraindicated in people with a known hypersensitivity to galantamine, the active metabolite of benzgalantamine.
    Headline
    AV block, sinus node dysfunction
    General Information
    Cholinesterase inhibitors, including benzgalantamine, may have vagotonic effects on the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes, leading to bradycardia or heart block. Bradycardia and all types of heart block have been reported in people taking cholinesterase inhibitors, both with and without known underlying sinus node dysfunction or other supraventricular cardiac conduction abnormalities (e.g., AV block, sinoatrial block).
    Headline
    peptic ulcer disease
    General Information
    Use benzgalantamine with caution in people with a history or risk factors for developing gastrointestinal ulcers (e.g., those with a history of peptic ulcer disease or those receiving concurrent NSAIDs). Cholinesterase inhibitors, such as benzgalantamine, are expected to increase gastric acid secretion due to increased cholinergic activity. Benzgalantamine recipients should be closely monitored for symptoms of active or occult GI bleeding.
    Headline
    bladder obstruction
    General Information
    Cholinomimetics, including benzgalantamine, may cause bladder obstruction (bladder outflow obstruction). Although not observed in clinical trials with galantamine (the active metabolite of benzgalantamine), caution is advised when administering benzgalantamine to patients predisposed to these disorders.
    Headline
    asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Due to the cholinomimetic action, benzgalantamine should be prescribed with caution in people with a history of severe asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    Use benzgalantamine with caution in people with a history of seizures or a seizure disorder. Cholinomimetics, such as benzgalantamine, are believed to have the potential to cause generalized seizures. Seizure activity may also be a manifestation of Alzheimer disease; monitor these patients for seizures during benzgalantamine treatment.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Dosage adjustment is recommended for people with renal impairment with a CrCl of 9 to 59 mL/minute. Benzgalantamine is not recommended for use in people with renal failure (CrCl less than 9 mL/minute) due to the increased exposure to galantamine and risk of adverse effects.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Benzgalantamine is not recommended for use in severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure due to reduced clearance and increased exposure to the drug. Dosage adjustment is recommended for people with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B) due to a reduction in clearance of galantamine that was observed in clinical studies. No adjustment is necessary in mild impairment (Child-Pugh class A).
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The Beers Criteria state that cholinesterase inhibitors such as benzgalantamine may cause bradycardia and should be used with caution in geriatric adults with a history of syncope and should be avoided in those whose syncope may be due to bradycardia.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of benzgalantamine or galantamine (the active metabolite) during human pregnancy. In animal reproductive studies, administration of galantamine resulted in developmental toxicity (increased incidence of morphological abnormalities and decreased growth in offspring) at doses similar to or greater than those used clinically.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use benzgalantamine with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of benzgalantamine or galantamine (the active metabolite) in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for benzgalantamine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from benzgalantamine or from the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of benzgalantamine or galantamine (the active metabolite) during human pregnancy. In animal reproductive studies, administration of galantamine resulted in developmental toxicity (increased incidence of morphological abnormalities and decreased growth in offspring) at doses similar to or greater than those used clinically.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use benzgalantamine with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of benzgalantamine or galantamine (the active metabolite) in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for benzgalantamine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from benzgalantamine or from the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Acetylcholine Chloride: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Amantadine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of cholinesterase inhibitors may be diminished when co-administered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties like amantadine.
Amifampridine: (Moderate) Coaministration of amifampridine and galantamine may increase the risk for adverse reactions due to additive cholinergic effects. Monitor patients closely for new or worsening side effects such as headache, visual disturbances, watery eyes, excessive sweating, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bradycardia, loss of bladder control, confusion, or tremors.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when coadministered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties including tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy, and consider use of secondary TCAs (e.g., desipramine, nortriptyline), which generally have less potent anticholinergic effects than tertiary TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, clomipramine).
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Due to their anticholinergic actions, some cyclic antidepressants, including amoxapine, may antagonize the therapeutic actions of the cholinesterase-inhibitors such as galantamine, which are used for the treatment of dementia. Consider alternatives if concurrent therapy is needed. If alternative therapy is not possible, monitor for deceased efficacy of galantamine.
Anticholinergics: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when co-administered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties, such as orphenadrine.
Atenolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Atracurium: (Moderate) A higher atracurium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as galantamine.
Atropine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Benztropine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Bethanechol: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Carteolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Cevimeline: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when coadministered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties including tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy, and consider use of secondary TCAs (e.g., desipramine, nortriptyline), which generally have less potent anticholinergic effects than tertiary TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, clomipramine).
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine. (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Conventional antipsychotics with significant anticholinergic effects, such as chlorpromazine, are more likely than other conventional antipsychotics to diminish the therapeutic action of galantamine, and use of an alternative antipsychotic should be considered. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and exerts its therapeutic effect by improving the availability of acetylcholine. Consider the use of an antipsychotic with less prominent anticholinergic effects.
Cholinergic agonists: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) A higher cisatracurium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as galantamine.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when coadministered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties including tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy, and consider use of secondary TCAs (e.g., desipramine, nortriptyline), which generally have less potent anticholinergic effects than tertiary TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, clomipramine).
cloZAPine: (Moderate) The anticholinergic activity of clozapine may interfere with the action of cholinergic medications such as galantamine. Atypical antipsychotics with significant anticholinergic effects, such clozapine, are more likely than other atypical antipsychotics to diminish the therapeutic action of galantamine in treating dementia. Use of an alternative antipsychotic should be considered. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and exerts its therapeutic effect by improving the availability of acetylcholine. Consider the use of an antipsychotic with less prominent anticholinergic effects.
Cocaine: (Major) cholinesterase inhibitors reduce the metabolism of cocaine, therefore, prolonging cocaine's effects or increasing the risk of toxicity. It should be taken into consideration that the cholinesterase inhibition caused by echothiophate, demecarium, or isoflurophate may persist for weeks or months after the medication has been discontinued. Additionally, local anesthetics can antagonize the effects of cholinesterase inhibitors by inhibiting neuronal transmission in skeletal muscle, especially if large doses of local anesthetics are used. Dosage adjustment of the cholinesterase inhibitor may be necessary to control the symptoms of myasthenia gravis.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Promethazine exhibits anticholinergic properties that could potentially interfere with the cholinesterase inhibitor activity of galantamine. When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Promethazine exhibits anticholinergic properties that could potentially interfere with the cholinesterase inhibitor activity of galantamine. When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of certain muscle relaxants, such as cyclobenzaprine with galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Use of cyclobenzaprine may result in significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with cholinesterase inhibitors in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Desipramine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when coadministered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties including tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy, and consider use of secondary TCAs (e.g., desipramine, nortriptyline), which generally have less potent anticholinergic effects than tertiary TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, clomipramine).
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Digoxin: (Minor) Monitor for bradycardia and AV block in patients with additional risk factors for adverse effects during concomitant use of digoxin and galantamine. Both medications have been associated with these adverse reactions and described in case reports during concomitant use.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine. (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine. (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when co-administered with the antimuscarinics, such as disopyramide. When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Doxepin: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when coadministered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties including tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy, and consider use of secondary TCAs (e.g., desipramine, nortriptyline), which generally have less potent anticholinergic effects than tertiary TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, clomipramine).
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Esmolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Etodolac: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for cholinergic adverse effects during concomitant use of gepotidacin with other cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine. Both medications have a similar mechanism of action and side effects may be additive.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Moderate) Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with cholinesterase inhibitors in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Imipramine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when coadministered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties including tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy, and consider use of secondary TCAs (e.g., desipramine, nortriptyline), which generally have less potent anticholinergic effects than tertiary TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, clomipramine).
Indomethacin: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with cholinesterase inhibitors in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Labetalol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Landiolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors. Methocarbamol also has sedative properties that may interfere with cognition. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients receiving cholinesterase inhibitors.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Nadolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Naproxen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when coadministered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties including tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy, and consider use of secondary TCAs (e.g., desipramine, nortriptyline), which generally have less potent anticholinergic effects than tertiary TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, clomipramine).
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotics with significant anticholinergic effects, such olanzapine, are more likely than other atypical antipsychotics to diminish the therapeutic action of galantamine in treating dementia. Use of an alternative antipsychotic should be considered. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and exerts its therapeutic effect by improving the availability of acetylcholine. Consider the use of an antipsychotic with less prominent anticholinergic effects. Monitor for decreased clinical efficacy of galantamine if olanzapine must be used concurrently.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotics with significant anticholinergic effects, such olanzapine, are more likely than other atypical antipsychotics to diminish the therapeutic action of galantamine in treating dementia. Use of an alternative antipsychotic should be considered. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and exerts its therapeutic effect by improving the availability of acetylcholine. Consider the use of an antipsychotic with less prominent anticholinergic effects. Monitor for decreased clinical efficacy of galantamine if olanzapine must be used concurrently.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotics with significant anticholinergic effects, such olanzapine, are more likely than other atypical antipsychotics to diminish the therapeutic action of galantamine in treating dementia. Use of an alternative antipsychotic should be considered. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and exerts its therapeutic effect by improving the availability of acetylcholine. Consider the use of an antipsychotic with less prominent anticholinergic effects. Monitor for decreased clinical efficacy of galantamine if olanzapine must be used concurrently.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when co-administered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties, such as orphenadrine.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when coadministered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties including tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy, and consider use of secondary TCAs (e.g., desipramine, nortriptyline), which generally have less potent anticholinergic effects than tertiary TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, clomipramine).
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Pilocarpine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Pindolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Pralidoxime: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Promethazine exhibits anticholinergic properties that could potentially interfere with the cholinesterase inhibitor activity of galantamine. When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Promethazine exhibits anticholinergic properties that could potentially interfere with the cholinesterase inhibitor activity of galantamine. When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Promethazine exhibits anticholinergic properties that could potentially interfere with the cholinesterase inhibitor activity of galantamine. When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy.
Propranolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when coadministered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties including tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy, and consider use of secondary TCAs (e.g., desipramine, nortriptyline), which generally have less potent anticholinergic effects than tertiary TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, clomipramine).
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) A higher rocuronium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as galantamine.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Muscle relaxation produced by succinylcholine can be prolonged when the drug is administered with a cholinesterase inhibitor. If used during surgery, extended respiratory depression could result from prolonged neuromuscular blockade. Other neuromuscular blockers may interact with cholinesterase inhibitors in a similar fashion. Cholinesterase inhibitors are therefore also likely to exaggerate muscle relaxation under general anesthetics.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Sotalol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors such as galantamine may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) A synergistic effect may be expected when succinylcholine is given concomitantly with a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as galantamine.
Sulindac: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Conventional antipsychotics with significant anticholinergic effects, such thioridazine, are more likely than other conventional antipsychotics to diminish the therapeutic action of galantamine in treating dementia. Use of an alternative antipsychotic should be considered. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and exerts its therapeutic effect by improving the availability of acetylcholine. Consider the use of an antipsychotic with less prominent anticholinergic effects.
Timolol: (Moderate) The increase in vagal tone induced by cholinesterase inhibitors, such as galantamine, may produce bradycardia or syncope. The vagotonic effect of galantamine may theoretically be increased when given with beta-blockers.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) NSAIDs may cause additive pharmacodynamic GI effects with cholinesterase inhibitors, leading to gastrointestinal intolerance. Patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. While NSAIDs appear to suppress microglial activity, which in turn may slow inflammatory neurodegenerative processes important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are no clinical data at this time to suggest that NSAIDs alone or as combined therapy with AD agents result in synergistic effects in AD.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as tolterodine), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when coadministered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties including tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy, and consider use of secondary TCAs (e.g., desipramine, nortriptyline), which generally have less potent anticholinergic effects than tertiary TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, clomipramine).
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as oxybutynin, darifenacin, trospium, fesoterodine, tolerodine, or solifenacin), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. Atropine may be used to offset bradycardia in cholinesterase inhibitor overdose.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of galantamine may be diminished when coadministered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties including tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). When concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor the patient for reduced galantamine efficacy, and consider use of secondary TCAs (e.g., desipramine, nortriptyline), which generally have less potent anticholinergic effects than tertiary TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, clomipramine).
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Trospium: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) A higher vecuronium dose may be required to achieve neuromuscular block with concomitant use of a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as galantamine.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of the cholinesterase inhibitors for dementia or other neurologic conditions may be diminished during chronic co-administration with antimuscarinics or medications with potent anticholinergic activity. Some of the common selective antimuscarinic drugs for bladder problems, (such as trospium), do not routinely cause problems with medications used for dementia, but may cause anticholinergic side effects in some patients. When concurrent use is not avoidable, the patient should be monitored for cognitive decline and anticholinergic side effects. Clinicians should generally avoid multiple medications with anticholinergic activity in the patient with dementia.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), erythema multiforme, hyperhidrosis, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome
    General Information
    Allergic and dermatologic adverse effects of benzgalantamine are largely derived from clinical experience with galantamine (the active metabolite of benzgalantamine). Hyperhidrosis (less than 1%) was reported during clinical trials of galantamine. During postmarketing experience with galantamine, hypersensitivity reactions and serious skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), and erythema multiforme have been reported. Benzgalantamine should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash unless the rash is clearly not drug-related. If signs or symptoms suggest a serious skin reaction, do not resume benzgalantamine and consider alternative therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    AV block, bradycardia, hypertension, hypotension, palpitations, syncope
    General Information
    Cholinesterase inhibitors (including benzgalantamine) have vagotonic effects on the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes, which may lead to bradycardia and AV block. Bradycardia and all types of heart block have been with cholinesterase inhibitors, in patients both with and without known underlying cardiac conduction abnormalities. Incidences of cardiovascular reactions are derived from clinical trial experience with galantamine therapy versus placebo. Syncope (0.4% to 2.2%) was reported with galantamine therapy and was considered dose-related, with patients receiving 12 mg galantamine twice daily experiencing the higher incidence of syncope (2.2%). Bradycardia occurred in 1% of treated individuals at a rate higher than with placebo. Other cardiac and/or vascular adverse effects observed in clinical trials of galantamine in less than 1% of treated patients include first-degree AV block, palpitations, supraventricular extrasystoles, flushing and hypotension. Complete AV block and hypertension have been reported during postmarketing use of galantamine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      AV block
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, dehydration, diarrhea, dyspepsia, GI bleeding, nausea, peptic ulcer, vomiting, weight loss
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects of benzgalantamine are largely derived from clinical experience with galantamine (the active metabolite of benzgalantamine). Cholinomimetics (including benzgalantamine) may increase gastric acid secretion due to increased cholinergic activity, which can increase risks of GI bleeding. Clinical studies of galantamine have shown no increase in the incidence of peptic ulcer or GI bleeding relative to placebo. However, as a consequence of its pharmaceutical properties, galantamine has been shown to cause numerous other GI symptoms. Nausea (20.7%), vomiting (10.5%), and diarrhea (7.4%) are among the most commonly reported; other GI adverse effects include abdominal pain (3.8%), abdominal discomfort (2.1%), and dyspepsia (1.5%). Retching has been reported in less than 1% of treated patients. Decreased appetite (anorexia; 7.4%) has been reported as a metabolism and nutrition disorder during galantamine treatment and decreased weight (weight loss) was reported in 4.7% of treated subjects at incidences higher than with placebo. Dehydration was reported in less than 1%, and the encouragement of adequate fluid intake during treatment may limit the potential for this side effect. The most frequent adverse events associated with treatment discontinuation in clinical trials were nausea (6.2%), vomiting (3.3%), decreased appetite (1.5%), diarrhea (0.8%), and weight loss (0.7%). Many dose-limiting GI side effects are more likely to develop during dosage titration and usually resolve with continued treatment. For patients experiencing nausea, the median duration of symptoms was 5 to 7 days.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peptic ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dysgeusia, dyskinesia, hallucinations, headache, lethargy, paresthesias, seizures, tremor
    General Information
    Psychiatric and nervous system effects of benzgalantamine are largely derived from clinical trial experience with galantamine (the active metabolite of benzgalantamine). Psychiatric and nervous system events reported to occur in galantamine-treated patients and at a frequency greater than placebo included depression (3.6%), dizziness (7.5%), headache (7.1%), tremor (1.6%), drowsiness or somnolence (1.5%), syncope (1.4% when reported as a nervous system event), and lethargy (1.3%). Headache and dizziness were among the most frequent adverse events associated with treatment discontinuation. Other CNS effects that were reported during clinical trial evaluation in less than 1% of galantamine-treated subjects included dysgeusia, hypersomnia, and paresthesias. Hallucinations, extrapyramidal disorders (dyskinesia), and seizures have been reported during postmarketing use. While cholinesterase inhibitors are believed to have some potential for generalized convulsions, seizure activity may also be a manifestation of Alzheimer's disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    muscle cramps, myasthenia
    General Information
    Data from placebo-controlled clinical trials report that muscle spasms (muscle cramps) occured in 1.2% of patients receiving galantamine (the active metabolite of benzgalantamine). Myasthenia (muscular weakness, less than 1%) was also reported during clinical evaluation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myasthenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue, malaise
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled clinical trials of galantamine (the active metabolite of benzgalantamine), fatigue (3.5%), asthenia (2%), and malaise (1.1%) were reported at higher rates than with placebo. Injury events reported in treated patients included fall (3.9%) and laceration (1.1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, tinnitus
    General Information
    Blurred vision (less than 1%) was reported during clinical trial use of galantamine (the active metabolite of benzgalantamine). Tinnitus has been reported during postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes and hepatitis have been reported during postmarketing use of galantamine (the active metabolite of benzgalantamine).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    urinary tract obstruction
    General Information
    While not observed in clinical trials with galantamine, cholinomimetics (including benzgalantamine) may cause urinary tract obstruction (specifically, bladder outflow obstruction), particularly in patients with increased risk for bladder obstruction.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urinary tract obstruction
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Benzgalantamine, a prodrug of galantamine, is a reversible cholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease in adults. Small improvements in cognition and activities of daily living may be observed during treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors; however, the drugs do not prevent or delay progression of the disease. Numerous studies have indicated that galantamine is associated with small improvements in cognition in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease, but these benefits are lessened as the disease progresses and becomes more severe. The incidence of adverse gastrointestinal adverse effects (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and decreased appetite with subsequent weight loss) may be reduced with slow titration over weeks of treatment. Patients and caregivers should be encouraged to ensure adequate fluid intake during treatment to minimize fluid loss from these adverse effects and reminded of the importance of compliance with treatment. For patients who miss more than 3 days of benzgalantamine, the dose should be restarted at the initial dose and titrated back to the previous dose. Benzgalantamine and galantamine treatment have also been associated with serious skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, and erythema multiforme. Patients and caregivers should be informed to discontinue use of benzgalantamine at the first sign of a skin rash, unless the rash is clearly not drug-related. Benzgalantamine was FDA-approved in July 2024.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Alzheimer's disease causes cognitive problems through a complex process involving many factors. One key characteristic of Alzheimer's disease is decreasing cognition, which is believed to be related to the degeneration of acetylcholine-producing neurons in the brain. Studies have found that the degree of cholinergic loss can be correlated to the degree of cognitive impairment and density of amyloid plaques, which are a neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. Benzgalantamine is a prodrug of galantamine, a tertiary alkaloid that is a competitive and reversible inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase (AChE). This action is believed to help maintain acetylcholine levels, potentially reducing the decline in memory and daily function by compensating for the loss of these neurons. However, this mechanism requires that intact cholinergic neurons be present. As Alzheimer's disease progresses, fewer intact cholinergic neurons remain, and cholinesterase inhibitors become less effective. Moreover, these medications don't seem to impact the actual progression of the disease or brain changes. Brain abnormalities seen in Alzheimer's include damage to the neurons that connect the forebrain to the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, areas crucial for memory. Galantamine is unique among similar AChe inhibitor drugs because it also acts on nicotinic receptors, which may be due to its attachment to a specific part of the receptor. Yet, there's no proof that this additional action provides any greater clinical benefit than other drugs in its class.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Galantamine is well-absorbed orally with a time to peak concentration (Tmax) of approximately 2.5 to 3 hours. The absolute bioavailability of galantamine is approximately 90%. Administration with food did not affect the Cmax or AUC of galantamine, but Tmax was increased to 6 hours when benzgalantamine was administered with food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Following a single 4 mg dose, the pharmacokinetics of galantamine in subjects with mild hepatic impairment (n=8; Child-Pugh score of 5 to 6) were similar to the pharmacokinetic findings in healthy subjects. In subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 7 to 9), the clearance of galantamine was decreased by about 25% compared to healthy volunteers. A further increase in galantamine exposure would be expected with an increasing severity of hepatic dysfunction. The effects on metabolism in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 10 to 15) are unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Following a single 8 mg dose of galantamine, the AUC increased by 37% and 67% in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment, respectively, compared with healthy volunteers. Dosage adjustments are recommended if the CrCl is 9 to 59 mL/minute. Use should be avoided in people with a CrCl less than 9 mL/minute.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Data from clinical trials indicate that galantamine concentrations are 30% to 40% higher in older adults than in healthy young subjects.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    A population pharmacokinetic analysis (comprised of 539 men and 550 women) indicates that galantamine clearance is approximately 20% lower in women than in men. These differences are attributed to the lower body weight in women. No dosage adjustments are required.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    A population pharmacokinetic analysis (which included the following demographics: White, n= 1029; Black or African American, n = 24; Asian, n = 13; and other, n = 23) indicated that race or ethnicity did not affect the clearance of galantamine.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of galantamine were observed based on CYP2D6 metabolizer status.
  Text
  Benzgalantamine is administered orally. Benzgalantamine is a prodrug of galantamine, the active metabolite. Systemic exposures of benzgalantamine are less than 1% of galantamine exposures, so pharmacokinetic parameters are reported with respect to galantamine. The mean volume of distribution of galantamine is 175 L. Plasma protein binding of galantamine is 18% at therapeutically relevant concentrations. In whole blood, galantamine is mainly distributed to blood cells (52.7%). The blood to plasma concentration ratio of galantamine is 1.2. Based on in vitro studies, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 were the major enzymes involved in the metabolism of galantamine. CYP2D6 was involved in the formation of O-desmethyl-galantamine, whereas CYP3A4 mediated the formation of galantamine-N-oxide. Galantamine is also glucuronidated and excreted unchanged in urine. The elimination half-life averages 7 hours. Following IV or oral administration, approximately 20% of a dose is excreted as unchanged galantamine in the urine in 24 hours. In studies of radiolabeled oral galantamine, unchanged galantamine and its glucuronide accounted for most of the plasma radioactivity. Up to 8 hours post-dose, unchanged galantamine accounted for 39% to 77% of the total radioactivity in the plasma, and glantamine glucuronide for 14% to 24%. By 7 days, 93% to 99% of the total radioactivity was recovered, with about 95% in urine and about 5% in the feces. Total urinary recovery of unchanged galantamine accounted for approximately 32% of the dose, while galantamine glucuronide accounted for approximately 12%.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, CYP3A4
Galantamine does not appear to be a significant inhibitor or inducer of CYP 450 enzymes, but CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 are involved in galantamine metabolism. Strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or CYP2D6 may increase serum concentrations of galantamine, but clinically relevant drug interactions have not been established.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Delayed-release tablets:
Administer with or without food.
Have patient swallow tablets whole; do not split, chew, or crush.
Do not administer with alcohol.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    May be taken with or without food.
Ensure patients receive adequate fluid intake during treatment.
If therapy is interrupted for more than 3 days, restart treatment at the lowest dosage and titrate back up to the current dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    30 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    30 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 5 to 6, Class A): No dosage adjustment necessary.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 7 to 9, Class B): Do not exceed 10 mg PO twice daily (20 mg/day).
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 10 to 15, Class C): Use is not recommended.
  Renal Impairment
  CrcL 60 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment necessary.
CrcL 9 to 59 mL/minute: Do not exceed 10 mg PO twice daily (20 mg/day).
CrCl less than 9 mL/minute: Use is not recommended.
