=== Measles Virus/Mumps Virus/Rubella Virus/Varicella Virus Vaccine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3456)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) vaccine, live is a combination injection consisting of 4 live, attenuated virus vaccinations intended to confer immunity against measles (rubeola), mumps, varicella (chickenpox), and rubella (German measles) viruses.

Routes: intramuscular; Common adult doses: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): ecchymosis, erythema, injection site reaction, agitation, drowsiness, headache, irritability, aplastic anemia, epistaxis, lymphadenopathy, thrombocytopenia, candidiasis, cough, epididymitis, infection, influenza, parotitis, pharyngitis, pneumonitis, rhinitis, rhinorrhea, sinusitis, sneezing, throat irritation, anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, erythema multiforme, panniculitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: This section discusses the contraindications of the Measles virus;

Brand Names
  - ProQuad

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intramuscular or Subcutaneous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Children
        Dosage Description
        0.5 mL IM or subcutaneously for 2 doses. For routine immunization, the recommended schedule is administration of the first MMR dose at age 12 to 15 months and the second dose at age 4 to 6 years. The maximum age for MMRV use is 12 years. For catch-up immunization, the 2 doses should be administered at least 1 to 3 months apart depending on which products are administered. If both doses are going to be administered as the MMRV combination vaccine, then 3 months should elapse between doses. If 1 of the doses is administered as separate components (MMR and varicella vaccines), at least 1 month should elapse between administration of the MMR and the MMRV combination vaccine. At least 3 months should elapse between administration of the varicella vaccine and MMRV. A third MMR or MMRV dose is recommended in patients who were previously vaccinated with 2 doses of a mumps virus-containing vaccine and are identified by public health authorities as being at increased risk for acquiring mumps because of an outbreak.
    Heading
    For measles prophylaxis, mumps prophylaxis, rubella prophylaxis, and varicella (chickenpox) infection prophylaxis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  NOTE: This section discusses the contraindications of the Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live. Consult individual drug monographs (varicella virus vaccine live and measles/mumps/rubella vaccines, MMR) for more detailed information.
 
Measles and mumps viruses are cultured from chick embryos. Patients with a history of egg hypersensitivity may be more likely to develop an allergic reaction if given the vaccine. In persons allergic to eggs, the risk for serious allergic reactions following administration of measles- or mumps-containing vaccines is extremely low. In a study of 54 children with documented egg allergy, a single 0.5 ml SC dose of the MMR vaccine was administered safely despite the confirmation of egg allergy with a food challenge. Thus, according to the CDC, skin testing is not required before administering MMR to persons allergic to eggs. Data indicate that most anaphylactic reactions to measles- and mumps-containing vaccines are not associated with hypersensitivity to egg antigens but to other components of the vaccines. Carefully evaluate the risk: benefit ratio before vaccinating an individual with an egg hypersensitivity. Treatment of an anaphylactoid reaction may be necessary (see Administration).
 
Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live vaccine is preservative-free, but it does contain trace amounts of neomycin from the manufacturing process and should not be given to anyone with a history of immediate-type neomycin hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions). Contact dermatitis from neomycin exposure is not a contraindication for vaccine receipt. If vaccine receipt is necessary for a patient with a history of anaphylactic reactions to neomycin, consult an allergist or immunologist and be prepared to treat an anaphylactoid reaction (see Administration). Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of the vaccine, including gelatin hypersensitivity or albumin hypersensitivity, should also not receive Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live. Each dose of the Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live contains 11 mg of hydrolyzed gelatin as a stabilizer and 0.31 mg of human albumin. With any biologic product, the prescriber or health care professional should take precautions to prevent allergic reactions. The health care professional should have immediate availability of epinephrine (1:1000) injection and other agents used in the treatment of severe anaphylaxis in the event of a serious allergic reaction to the vaccine. Prior to the administration of the vaccine, the health care personnel should inform the parent, guardian, or responsible adult of the benefits and risks to the patient. This should include the provision of the vaccine information statement from the manufacturer. The responsible adult should report any adverse reaction following vaccine administration to the health care provider. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has established a Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) to accept all reports of suspected adverse events after the administration of any vaccine. This includes, but is not limited to, the reporting of events required by the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986. The toll-free number for VAERS is 1—800—822—7967.
 
Intravenous administration or intramuscular administration of Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live is not recommended. The vaccine is for subcutaneous administration only.
 
Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live should not be given to patients with moderate or severe fever (> 101.3 degrees F) or a severe respiratory infection. Minor illness, such as a mild upper respiratory tract infection or diarrhea with or without low grade fever, does not preclude vaccine administration. Patients with active, untreated tuberculosis should not be given the vaccine, as there are no data on the effects of the safety of vaccination in these patients. The effect of measles virus vaccines on children with untreated tuberculosis is unknown. Exacerbation of tuberculosis after live measles virus vaccination in children who are being treated for tuberculosis has not been noted.
 
Recommendations and precautions for patients with immunosuppression are complex. Transmission of varicella virus may occur between healthy vaccine recipients who develop a varicella-like rash and patients who are susceptible to varicella (e.g., immunocompromised patients, pregnant women without a history of varicella or laboratory evidence of prior infection, and newborns of mothers who do not have a history of varicella or laboratory evidence of prior infection). Healthy persons should avoid contact with varicella-susceptible persons for at least 6 weeks after vaccination. If a vaccine recipient is expected to come into contact with a varicella-susceptible individual, weigh the potential risk of the varicella vaccine virus transmission against the risk of acquiring and transmitting wild-type varicella virus. Immunocompromised persons who are vaccinated are more likely to get severe varicella-like rashes and disseminated disease and may transmit the varicella-zoster virus to susceptible persons. Patients receiving blood transfusions or immunoglobulin therapy may need to have alterations in their immunization schedule (see Drug Interactions). The safety and efficacy of the vaccine in children with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection has not been established. Patients infected with HIV who have met diagnostic criteria of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) should not receive the vaccine. Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live should also not be administered to those with cellular immune deficiency, patients with hypogammaglobulinemia or dysgammaglobulinemia, or patients on immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroid therapy. Patients who are not otherwise immunocompromised and are using topical or inhaled corticosteroids or oral doses for corticosteroid replacement may receive the vaccine. Do not vaccinate a patient with a family history of congenital or hereditary immunodeficiency before establishment of their immune competence. Any neoplastic disease that causes bone marrow suppression or affects the lymphatic systems contraindicates the use of Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live. Patients with leukemia, lymphoma, a blood dyscrasia, or other malignant neoplasms affecting the bone marrow or lymphatic system should not receive the vaccine, including those currently receiving radiation therapy or induction chemotherapy. The vaccine may not be as immunogenic in patients suffering from immunosuppression. Furthermore, virus particle production can be potentiated in immunosuppressed patients. Measles inclusion body encephalitis, pneumonitis, and death as a direct consequence of disseminated measles vaccine virus infection have been reported in severely immunocompromised patients inadvertently vaccinated with measles-containing vaccine. Consult current CDC recommendations regarding vaccination of immunosuppressed patients.
 
Do not administer the Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live, a FDA pregnancy category C drug, to a pregnant woman. Females of reproductive capacity should avoid pregnancy for 3 months after vaccination. No animal reproductive studies have been undertaken, and it is not known if the vaccine can cause fetal harm or affect reproduction capacity. If inadvertent vaccination of a pregnant woman occurs, tell the woman about the possible risks.
 
Do not administer Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live to a breast-feeding woman. The CDC has noted that most live vaccines have not been demonstrated to be secreted in breast milk; however, attenuated rubella virus vaccine has been detected in breast milk and has produced asymptomatic infection in an infant. The secretion of measles, varicella, or mumps viruses in human milk has not been adequately studied.
 
At this time, no clinical data are available on the immunogenicity, efficacy, and safety of Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live in infants; vaccination of patients < 12 months of age is not recommended. Also, the use of the vaccine is not indicated for anyone over 12 years of age including the elderly.
 
Children with a personal or family history of a seizure disorder or a personal history of cerebral injury may be at an increased risk of developing febrile seizures after vaccination. The risk of this complication, however, appears to be low. In addition, febrile seizures occur commonly among children in whom measles disease develops.
 
Patients with thrombocytopenia or patients who developed thrombocytopenia after a measles vaccine, a measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine, or a varicella vaccine may not be appropriate candidates for the Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live. No clinical data are available regarding the development or worsening of thrombocytopenia among patients who received the Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live. Serologic testing for antibodies to measles, mumps, and rubella may help determine if vaccination is needed.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live is perseverative-free but contains trace neomycin and other components (e.g., gelatin, albumin). It is contraindicated in individuals with immediate-type hypersensitivity to these components. However, contact dermatitis is not a contraindication. Allergist consultation is advised if vaccination is essential in individuals with a history of anaphylactic reactions to neomycin. Most anaphylaxis cases after measles or mumps containing vaccines are due to components (e.g., gelatin, neomycin) other than egg protein. Despite measles and mumps vaccines being cultured in chick embryos, MMRV can be safely administered to most egg-allergic patients without prior skin testing, as the risk of serious reactions is extremely low. Vaccination is appropriate unless there is a known life-threatening allergy to a specific vaccine component. Providers should review allergy history and be prepared to treat anaphylaxis.
    Headline
    fever, tuberculosis
    General Information
    Measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) live vaccine is contraindicated in pediatric patients with moderate or severe febrile illness with fever greater than 101.3 degrees F and in individuals with active, untreated tuberculosis.
    Headline
    immunosuppression
    General Information
    Recommendations and precautions for individuals with immunosuppression are complex, but the measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) live vaccine is contraindicated in any person with a primary immunodeficiency state (i.e., severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), IgA deficiency, hypogammaglobulinemia, agammaglobulinemia, or dysgammaglobulinemia) or an acquired immunodeficiency state. Measles inclusion body encephalitis, pneumonitis, and death as a direct consequence of disseminated measles vaccine virus infection have been reported in immunocompromised individuals inadvertently vaccinated with measles-containing vaccine; additionally, disseminated mumps, rubella, and varicella virus infection has occurred in immunosuppressed individuals who were inadvertently given a MMRV vaccine. In addition, although there is no confirmed evidence to indicate the rubella virus can be transmitted to susceptible persons in contact with the vaccinated patient, there is a theoretical risk. Excretion of small amounts of the live, attenuated rubella virus from the nose or throat has occurred in the majority of susceptible individuals 7 to 28 days after vaccination. A family history of congenital or hereditary immunodeficiency is also a contraindication for MMRV vaccine unless the immune competence of the potential vaccine recipient is demonstrated. Vaccine recipients should avoid close association with susceptible high-risk individuals for 6 weeks. High-risk individuals include immunocompromised individuals, pregnant women without a documented history of chickenpox or laboratory evidence of prior infection, newborn infants of mothers without documented history of chickenpox or laboratory evidence of prior infection, and all newborn infants born younger than 28 weeks gestation regardless of maternal varicella immunity. In circumstances where contact with high-risk individuals is unavoidable, weigh the potential risk of transmission of vaccine virus against the risk of acquiring and transmitting natural varicella virus. The vaccine should also not be administered to those with cellular immune deficiency or those individuals on immunosuppressive therapy such as high-dose corticosteroid therapy. Vaccination with MMRV vaccine can result in a more extensive vaccine-associated rash or disseminated disease in these individuals. However, corticosteroid therapy usually is not a contraindication to administering live-virus vaccines when administration is short-term (less than 2 weeks); a low-to-moderate dose (less than 2 mg/kg of body weight or 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent for persons who weigh more than 10 kg when administered for less than 2 weeks); long-term, alternate-day treatment with short-acting preparations; maintenance physiologic doses (replacement therapy); or when administered topically (skin, eyes), inhaled, or by local injection. Healthcare providers should wait at least 1 month after discontinuation of high-dose corticosteroid therapy given for more than 2 weeks before administering MMRV vaccine. The vaccine is also contraindicated in individuals with blood dyscrasias or any neoplastic disease that causes bone marrow suppression or affects the lymphatic system such as leukemia or lymphoma, including individuals currently receiving chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Individuals with leukemia, lymphoma, or other malignancies whose disease is in remission and whose chemotherapy or radiation therapy has been terminated for at least 3 months can receive live-virus vaccines. Persons living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) should not receive the MMRV vaccine. Pediatric persons living with HIV who have met criteria for vaccination (age specific CD4 percentages 15% or more) should receive the single antigen varicella vaccine along with the MMR vaccine, and not the combination MMRV vaccine.
    Headline
    febrile seizures
    General Information
    Use caution when administering measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus vaccine, live to people with an individual or family history of febrile seizures. Pediatric patients ages 12 to 23 months who have not been previously vaccinated, nor have a history of the wild-type infections, have a higher risk of fever and febrile seizures at 5 to 12 days after vaccination with measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus vaccine, live (dose 1), compared to children who are vaccinated concomitantly with the first dose of measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine and varicella-zoster virus vaccine.
    Headline
    thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Transient thrombocytopenia has been reported within 4 to 6 weeks after vaccination. Consider the potential risk and benefit of vaccination in individuals with thrombocytopenia or in those who experienced thrombocytopenia after vaccination with a previous dose of a measles, mumps, and rubella-containing vaccine.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    The measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus vaccine (MMRV) is contraindicated during pregnancy due to the potential for serious maternal and fetal adverse outcomes associated with live virus exposure, as evidenced by data from wild-type infections. Wild-type measles infection during pregnancy has been linked to increased rates of spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, preterm delivery, and congenital defects. Wild-type mumps virus infection in the first trimester may raise the risk of spontaneous abortion; although the mumps vaccine can infect the placenta, it has not been shown to cause congenital malformations or fetal disease. Pregnant individuals infected with wild-type rubella virus face higher risks of miscarriage or stillbirth, and first-trimester infection can cause severe congenital defects leading to Congenital Rubella Syndrome (CRS), which includes eye abnormalities, congenital heart defects, hearing loss, microcephaly, and intellectual disabilities. One vaccine-associated CRS case has been reported postmarketing following inadvertent administration of a measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR)-containing vaccine at 5 weeks gestation. Wild-type varicella infection can cause congenital varicella syndrome. Postmarketing surveillance from 1978 to 2018 of 425 pregnancies with inadvertent MMR vaccination reported 16 major birth defects, 4 fetal deaths, and 50 miscarriages, but no CRS cases. A Vaccine in Pregnancy registry (1971 to 1989) monitoring 1,221 individuals inadvertently vaccinated with rubella virus vaccines around conception found no increase in fetal abnormalities or CRS. Vaccination during pregnancy is not recommended; if vaccination is necessary, it should be administered immediately postpartum.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus vaccine, live (MMRV). This vaccine is contraindicated during pregnancy due to the potential for serious fetal adverse outcomes associated with live virus exposure, as evidenced by data from wild-type infections. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective methods to prevent pregnancy for 3 months after vaccination.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    The measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus vaccine, live (MMRV) is considered compatible with breast-feeding. According to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), MMRV, live may be used during lactation. This vaccine does not affect the safety of breast-feeding for the individual or the breastfed child. The rubella vaccine virus may be excreted in human milk; however, the virus usually does not infect the child. If infection does occur, it is well tolerated because the virus is attenuated. The varicella virus vaccine has not been found in human milk. The ability of either the measles or mumps virus vaccine to be secreted in human milk is unknown. In breast-feeding infants with serological evidence of rubella infection, none exhibited severe disease; however, 1 exhibited mild clinical illness typical of acquired rubella. There are no data to suggest that passive transfer of antibodies in human milk affects the efficacy of live-virus vaccines. Breastfed children should be vaccinated according to the recommended schedule.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    The measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus vaccine (MMRV) is contraindicated during pregnancy due to the potential for serious maternal and fetal adverse outcomes associated with live virus exposure, as evidenced by data from wild-type infections. Wild-type measles infection during pregnancy has been linked to increased rates of spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, preterm delivery, and congenital defects. Wild-type mumps virus infection in the first trimester may raise the risk of spontaneous abortion; although the mumps vaccine can infect the placenta, it has not been shown to cause congenital malformations or fetal disease. Pregnant individuals infected with wild-type rubella virus face higher risks of miscarriage or stillbirth, and first-trimester infection can cause severe congenital defects leading to Congenital Rubella Syndrome (CRS), which includes eye abnormalities, congenital heart defects, hearing loss, microcephaly, and intellectual disabilities. One vaccine-associated CRS case has been reported postmarketing following inadvertent administration of a measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR)-containing vaccine at 5 weeks gestation. Wild-type varicella infection can cause congenital varicella syndrome. Postmarketing surveillance from 1978 to 2018 of 425 pregnancies with inadvertent MMR vaccination reported 16 major birth defects, 4 fetal deaths, and 50 miscarriages, but no CRS cases. A Vaccine in Pregnancy registry (1971 to 1989) monitoring 1,221 individuals inadvertently vaccinated with rubella virus vaccines around conception found no increase in fetal abnormalities or CRS. Vaccination during pregnancy is not recommended; if vaccination is necessary, it should be administered immediately postpartum.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    The measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus vaccine, live (MMRV) is considered compatible with breast-feeding. According to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), MMRV, live may be used during lactation. This vaccine does not affect the safety of breast-feeding for the individual or the breastfed child. The rubella vaccine virus may be excreted in human milk; however, the virus usually does not infect the child. If infection does occur, it is well tolerated because the virus is attenuated. The varicella virus vaccine has not been found in human milk. The ability of either the measles or mumps virus vaccine to be secreted in human milk is unknown. In breast-feeding infants with serological evidence of rubella infection, none exhibited severe disease; however, 1 exhibited mild clinical illness typical of acquired rubella. There are no data to suggest that passive transfer of antibodies in human milk affects the efficacy of live-virus vaccines. Breastfed children should be vaccinated according to the recommended schedule.

Interactions
Abatacept: (Contraindicated) If possible, administer all needed vaccines before abatacept initiation. Live vaccines should not be given concurrently with abatacept or within 3 months of its discontinuation. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased and adjusted doses or boosters that are more frequent may be required. The immune response to an inactive vaccine may still be suboptimal. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Acyclovir: (Major) If possible, discontinue acyclovir at least 24 hours before administration of the varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live. In patients with HIV, guidelines recommend waiting at least 72 hours after the last dose of acyclovir before administering varicella vaccines. Also, do not administer acyclovir for at least 14 days after vaccination. Concurrent administration of any of the varicella-zoster virus vaccines (Zostavax, Varivax, ProQuad) with antiviral medications known to be effective against varicella zoster virus has not been evaluated. Therefore, when possible, a washout period between the use of the antiviral medication and the vaccines is recommended. Acyclovir has a relatively short serum half-life and is quickly cleared from the body. Refer to the most recent Center for Disease control guidance if concurrent use is necessary.
Adalimumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to adalimumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving adalimumab. Before initiation of adalimumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Adalimumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Alemtuzumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Alkylating agents: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Alpha interferons: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Anakinra: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Anifrolumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Antimetabolites: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Antithymocyte Globulin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Aspirin, ASA: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Atacicept: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Axicabtagene Ciloleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
azaTHIOprine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Baricitinib: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines to patients taking baricitinib, as no data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines. Also, no data are available on the response to vaccination with any vaccine during baricitinib receipt. Before baricitinib initiation, review the vaccination status of patients, and update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines.
Basiliximab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to basiliximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving basiliximab. At least 2 weeks before initiation of basiliximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Basiliximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Belatacept: (Contraindicated) Avoid the use of live vaccines such as the intranasal influenza vaccine; measles/mumps/rubella vaccines, MMR; Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Live, BCG; yellow fever vaccine; oral polio vaccine; varicella virus vaccine live; and TY21a typhoid vaccine during belatacept treatment. Further, inactive vaccine receipt may not illicit an acceptable response; belatacept may blunt the effectiveness of some immunizations. Consult the most current CDC guidances for vaccination recommendations.
Belimumab: (Major) Live vaccines should not be given for 30 days before or concurrently with belimumab, as clinical safety has not been established. Because of its mechanism of action, belimumab may interfere with the response to immunizations. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Betamethasone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Bexarotene: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Bimekizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Blinatumomab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to blinatumomab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving blinatumomab. At least 2 weeks before initiation of blinatumomab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Blinatumomab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Botulism Immune Globulin, BIG-IV: (Major) Vaccination with live vaccines should be deferred until 6 months after administration of botulism immune globulin as antibodies present in immune globulin preparations may interfere with the immune response to live virus vaccines. This interval may be shortened if exposure to measles is likely. If such vaccinations were given shortly before or after botulism immune globulin administration, revaccination may be necessary.
Brensocatib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as brensocatib, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Brexucabtagene Autoleucel : (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during brexucabtagene autoleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with brexucabtagene autoleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Brodalumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to brodalumab recipients. Before initiation of brodalumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving brodalumab therapy.
Budesonide: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Busulfan: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Canakinumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving canakinumab; other vaccination schedules should be complete as recommended prior to initiating canakinumab treatment. No data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines, and the efficacy and safety of live vaccines have not been established in patients receiving canakinumab. The immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased, as canakinumab may interfere with normal immune response to new antigens. Limited data are available on the effectiveness of vaccination with inactivated antigens in patients receiving canakinumab. Because interleukin-1 blockade may interfere with immune response to infections, it is recommended that prior to initiation of therapy with canakinumab, adult and pediatric patients receive any recommended vaccination (including pneumococcal vaccine and inactivated influenza vaccines).
Carmustine, BCNU: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Certolizumab pegol: (Contraindicated) Avoid use of live vaccines during or immediately prior to initiation of therapy with certolizumab. Update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines prior to initiating certolizumab therapy. If immunization is necessary, refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Chlorambucil: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Ciltacabtagene Autoleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during ciltacabtagene autoleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with ciltacabtagene autoleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
CISplatin: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to cisplatin recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving cisplatin. At least 2 weeks before initiation of cisplatin therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Cisplatin recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Cladribine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Clofarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Corticosteroids (systemic): (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Cortisone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Crotalidae Polyvalent Immune Fab, Ovine: (Major) Do not give immune globulin including varicella zoster immune globulin concurrently with the varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live. Because of the potential inhibition of the immune response to vaccination by passively transferred antibodies, it is advisable not to give varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live to any patient who has received blood (except washed red blood cells), plasma transfusions, or immunoglobulins within the previous 5 months. After varicella vaccination, the CDC recommends that immune globulin products should not be given for 3 weeks, unless the benefit outweighs the risk; the manufacturer recommends waiting 2 months before administering immunoglobulins. In the case that IgG products are administered within 3 weeks of vaccination, the vaccinee should be either revaccinated at 5 months or tested for immunity and revaccinated if seronegative. Consult current CDC guidelines for recommendations.
cycloSPORINE: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Cytarabine, ARA-C: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to cytarabine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving cytarabine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of cytarabine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Cytarabine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Cytomegalovirus Immune Globulin, CMV-IGIV: (Major) Do not give immune globulin including varicella zoster immune globulin concurrently with the varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live. Because of the potential inhibition of the immune response to vaccination by passively transferred antibodies, it is advisable not to give varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live to any patient who has received blood (except washed red blood cells), plasma transfusions, or immunoglobulins within the previous 5 months. After varicella vaccination, the CDC recommends that immune globulin products should not be given for 3 weeks, unless the benefit outweighs the risk; the manufacturer recommends waiting 2 months before administering immunoglobulins. In the case that IgG products are administered within 3 weeks of vaccination, the vaccinee should be either revaccinated at 5 months or tested for immunity and revaccinated if seronegative. Consult current CDC guidelines for recommendations. (Major) Rubella Virus Vaccine or Measles/mumps/rubella vaccines, MMR should not be given for at least 3 months following administration of immunoglobulins because antibodies in these products can neutralize the vaccine.
Dacarbazine, DTIC: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Deflazacort: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Deucravacitinib: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to deucravacitinib recipients. Before initiation of deucravacitinib therapy, consider completion of all age-appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving deucravacitinib therapy.
Deuruxolitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as deuruxolitinib, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
dexAMETHasone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Digoxin Immune Fab: (Major) Do not give immune globulin including varicella zoster immune globulin concurrently with the varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live. Because of the potential inhibition of the immune response to vaccination by passively transferred antibodies, it is advisable not to give varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live to any patient who has received blood (except washed red blood cells), plasma transfusions, or immunoglobulins within the previous 5 months. After varicella vaccination, the CDC recommends that immune globulin products should not be given for 3 weeks, unless the benefit outweighs the risk; the manufacturer recommends waiting 2 months before administering immunoglobulins. In the case that IgG products are administered within 3 weeks of vaccination, the vaccinee should be either revaccinated at 5 months or tested for immunity and revaccinated if seronegative. Consult current CDC guidelines for recommendations.
DOCEtaxel: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to docetaxel recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving docetaxel. At least 2 weeks before initiation of docetaxel therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Docetaxel recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Dupilumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to dupilumab recipients. Before initiation of dupilumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving dupilumab therapy.
Efgartigimod Alfa: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Emapalumab: (Major) Do not administer live or live attenuated vaccines to patients receiving emapalumab and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose of emapalumab. The safety of immunization with live vaccines during or after emapalumab therapy has not been studied.
Estramustine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Etanercept: (Contraindicated) Etanercept has not been found to act as a general immunosuppressant; however, the patient's underlying disease state may result in the immunosuppression. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Etrasimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Everolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to everolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving everolimus. Before initiation of everolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Everolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Famciclovir: (Major) If possible, discontinue famciclovir at least 24 hours before administration of the varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live. Also, do not administer famciclovir for at least 14 days after vaccination. Concurrent administration of any of the varicella-zoster virus vaccines (Zostavax, Varivax, ProQuad) with antiviral medications known to be effective against varicella zoster virus has not been evaluated. Therefore, when possible, a washout period between the use of the antiviral medication and the vaccines is recommended. Refer to the most recent Center for Disease control guidance if concurrent use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving fingolimod or has discontinued the drug in the last 2 months because of the risk of infection. No data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines, and the efficacy and safety of live vaccines have not been established in patients receiving fingolimod. Before fingolimod initiation, test patients without a history of chickenpox or without vaccination against varicella zoster virus (VZV) for antibodies to VZV. Consider VZV vaccination of antibody-negative patients before fingolimod initiation, and do not start fingolimod for 1 month to allow the full effect of vaccination to occur. In addition to the concerns with live virus vaccines, the immune response to inactive vaccines or toxoids may be decreased, as fingolimod may interfere with normal immune response to new antigens. No data are available on the effectiveness of vaccination with inactivated antigens in patients receiving fingolimod. Vaccination may be less effective during and for up to 2 months after fingolimod discontinuation. For example, as compared with the response of placebo recipients, the capacity to mount a skin delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction to Candida and to tetanus toxoid was decreased by approximately 30% among fingolimod 0.5 mg daily recipients. Further, in healthy patients, antigen-specific IgM titers were decreased by 25% in response to pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV-23) immunization as compared with the response by placebo recipients. Similarly, IgG titers were decreased by 50% among fingolimod recipients as compared with placebo.
Floxuridine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to floxuridine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving floxuridine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of floxuridine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Floxuridine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Fludarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Fluorouracil, 5-FU: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to fluorouracil recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving fluorouracil. At least 2 weeks before initiation of fluorouracil therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Fluorouracil recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Folate analogs: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Golimumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to golimumab recipients. Limited data are available on the response to live vaccination or on the risk of infection or infection transmission after the administration. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Guselkumab: (Major) Avoid use of live vaccines in patients being treated with guselkumab; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving guselkumab. In addition, guselkumab may decrease the vaccine-induced immune response. Before initiation of guselkumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines.
Hepatitis B Immune Globulin, HBIG: (Major) Do not give immune globulin including concurrently with the varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live. Because of the potential inhibition of the immune response to vaccination by passively transferred antibodies, it is advisable not to give varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live to any patient who has received blood (except washed red blood cells), plasma transfusions, or immunoglobulins within the previous 5 months. After varicella vaccination, the CDC recommends that immune globulin products should not be given for 3 weeks, unless the benefit outweighs the risk; the manufacturer recommends waiting 2 months before administering immunoglobulins. In the case that IgG products are administered within 3 weeks of vaccination, the vaccinee should be either revaccinated at 5 months or tested for immunity and revaccinated if seronegative. Consult current CDC guidelines for recommendations. (Major) The manufacturers advise deferral of live virus vaccine receipt such as measles/mumps/rubella vaccines, MMR and varicella virus vaccine live until approximately 3 months after hepatitis B immune globulin, HBIG administration. Of note, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices states that Ty21a typhoid; yellow fever; live, attenuated influenza vaccine; zoster; and rotavirus vaccines may be administered at any time before, concurrent with, or after administration of HBIG. For all other live vaccines, do not administer simultaneously with HBIG, as HBIG may interfere with live virus vaccines. If simultaneous administration of measles-containing vaccine or varicella-containing vaccine (except zoster) is unavoidable, administer the products at different sites and revaccinate or test for seroconversion after recommended interval of at least 3 months between HBIG administration and any measles or varicella-containing vaccine except the zoster vaccine. It may be necessary to revaccinate persons who received HBIG shortly after live virus vaccination. If HBIG was administered less than 14 days after live virus vaccination, revaccinate 3 months after HBIG administration unless serologic test results indicate antibody production. Administering inactivated vaccines and toxoids either simultaneously with or at any interval before or after receipt of an antibody-containing product should not substantially impair development of a protective antibody response. Administer the inactivated vaccine or toxoid and HBIG at different sites using the standard recommended doses.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Major) Do not give immune globulin including varicella zoster immune globulin concurrently with the varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live. Because of the potential inhibition of the immune response to vaccination by passively transferred antibodies, it is advisable not to give varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live to any patient who has received blood (except washed red blood cells), plasma transfusions, or immunoglobulins within the previous 5 months. There should be an interval of at least 5 months following administration of immune globulin, including varicella-zoster immune globulin, VZIG, before varicella vaccination. After varicella vaccination, the CDC recommends that immune globulin products should not be given for 3 weeks, unless the benefit outweighs the risk; the manufacturer recommends waiting 2 months before administering immunoglobulins. In the case that IgG products are administered within 3 weeks of vaccination, the vaccinee should be either revaccinated at 5 months or tested for immunity and revaccinated if seronegative. Consult current CDC guidelines for recommendations. (Major) Rubella virus vaccine or Measles/mumps/rubella vaccines, MMR should not be given for at least 3 months following administration of blood, plasma, and/or immunoglobulins because antibodies in these products can neutralize the vaccine.
Hydrocortisone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Hydroxyurea: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Icotrokinra: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as icotrokinra, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Idecabtagene Vicleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during idecabtagene vicleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with idecabtagene vicleucell. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Ifosfamide: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to ifosfamide recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving ifosfamide. Before initiation of ifosfamide therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Ifosfamide recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Imatinib: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Major) Do not give immune globulin including varicella zoster immune globulin concurrently with the varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live. Because of the potential inhibition of the immune response to vaccination by passively transferred antibodies, it is advisable not to give varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live to any patient who has received blood (except washed red blood cells), plasma transfusions, or immunoglobulins within the previous 5 months. There should be an interval of at least 5 months following administration of immune globulin, including varicella-zoster immune globulin, VZIG, before varicella vaccination. After varicella vaccination, the CDC recommends that immune globulin products should not be given for 3 weeks, unless the benefit outweighs the risk; the manufacturer recommends waiting 2 months before administering immunoglobulins. In the case that IgG products are administered within 3 weeks of vaccination, the vaccinee should be either revaccinated at 5 months or tested for immunity and revaccinated if seronegative. Consult current CDC guidelines for recommendations. (Major) Rubella virus vaccine or Measles/mumps/rubella vaccines, MMR should not be given for at least 3 months following administration of blood, plasma, and/or immunoglobulins because antibodies in these products can neutralize the vaccine.
Inebilizumab: (Major) Administer all immunizations according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of inebilizumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment and until B-cell repletion. In a neonate or infant with in utero exposure to inebilizumab, do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines before confirming recovery of B-cell counts in the infant. Depletion of B-cells in the exposed infant may increase the risks from live or live-attenuated vaccines.
inFLIXimab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to infliximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving infliximab. Before initiation of infliximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Infliximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Interferon Gamma-1b: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of interferon gamma-1b with other immunological preparations such as live vaccines due to the risk of an unpredictable or amplified, immune response.
Ixabepilone: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ixekizumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to ixekizumab recipients. Before initiation of ixekizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving Ixekizumab therapy.
Lebrikizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Leflunomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Lenalidomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Leniolisib: (Moderate) Patients receiving leniolisib may have a diminished response to live vaccines. Counsel patients receiving leniolisib about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Lisocabtagene Maraleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during lisocabtagene maraleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with lisocabtagene maraleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Lomustine, CCNU: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Melphalan Flufenamide: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in patients who are receiving melphalan. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period or altered immunocompetence.
Melphalan: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in patients who are receiving melphalan. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period or altered immunocompetence.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Methotrexate: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
methylPREDNISolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
mitoXANTRONE: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to mitoxantrone recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving mitoxantrone. At least 2 weeks before initiation of mitoxantrone therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Mitoxantrone recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Mycophenolate: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to mycophenolate recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving mycophenolate. At least 2 weeks before initiation of mycophenolate therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Mycophenolate recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to sirolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving sirolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of sirolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Sirolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Natalizumab: (Contraindicated) The immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased in patients who receive natalizumab; however, no data are available. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Nelarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Nilotinib: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Nipocalimab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Obinutuzumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to obinutuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving obinutuzumab. Before initiation of obinutuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Obinutuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Ocrelizumab: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Ofatumumab: (Major) Administer all live and live-attenuated vaccines according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ofatumumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment with ofatumumab; wait until B-cell recovery occurs after discontinuation of ofatumumab before administering these vaccines to a patient.
Ozanimod: (Major) Avoid the use of live vaccines and live attenuated vaccines during ozanimod treatment and for up to 3 months after discontinuation of ozanimod treatment. Live vaccinations may be less effective during ozanimod treatment and also may carry the risk of infection.
PACLitaxel: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to paclitaxel recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving paclitaxel. At least 2 weeks before initiation of paclitaxel therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Paclitaxel recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
PEMEtrexed: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Pentostatin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ponesimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
PRALAtrexate: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
prednisoLONE: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
predniSONE: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Procarbazine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Purine analogs: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Rabies Immune Globulin, human RIG: (Major) Defer immunization with measles virus vaccine, live attenuated for 4 months after rabies immune globulin, human RIG administration. Antibodies in RIG may interfere with the immune response to the live virus vaccine. According to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, if the measles virus vaccine, live attenuated is administered less than 4 months after receipt of RIG, the vaccine dose should be repeated unless serologic testing is feasible and indicates a response to the vaccine. The repeat dose and serologic tests must be performed 4 months or more after RIG administration. (Major) Defer immunization with mumps virus vaccine, live for 4 months after rabies immune globulin, human RIG administration. Antibodies in RIG may interfere with the immune response to the live virus vaccine. According to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, if the mumps virus vaccine, live is administered less than 4 months after receipt of RIG, the vaccine dose should be repeated unless serologic testing is feasible and indicates a response to the vaccine. The repeat dose and serologic tests must be performed 4 months or more after RIG administration. (Major) Defer immunization with rubella virus vaccine, live for 4 months after rabies immune globulin, human RIG administration. Antibodies in RIG may interfere with the immune response to the live virus vaccine. According to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, if the rubella virus vaccine, live is administered less than 4 months after receipt of RIG, the vaccine dose should be repeated unless serologic testing is feasible and indicates a response to the vaccine. The repeat dose and serologic tests must be performed 4 months or more after RIG administration. (Major) Defer immunization with varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live for at least 5 months after rabies immune globulin, human RIG administration. Do not give immune globulins for 2 months after varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live administration unless immune globulin use outweighs the benefits of vaccination. Antibodies in RIG may interfere with the immune response to the live virus vaccine. According to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, if the varicella virus vaccine live is administered less than 4 months after receipt of RIG, the vaccine dose should be repeated unless serologic testing is feasible and indicates a response to the vaccine. The repeat dose and serologic tests must be performed 4 months or more after RIG administration.
Remibrutinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Rh0 [D] Immune Globulin: (Major) Do not give immune globulin including varicella zoster immune globulin concurrently with the varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live. Because of the potential inhibition of the immune response to vaccination by passively transferred antibodies, it is advisable not to give varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live to any patient who has received blood (except washed red blood cells), plasma transfusions, or immunoglobulins within the previous 5 months. After varicella vaccination, the CDC recommends that immune globulin products should not be given for 3 weeks, unless the benefit outweighs the risk; the manufacturer recommends waiting 2 months before administering immunoglobulins. In the case that IgG products are administered within 3 weeks of vaccination, the vaccinee should be either revaccinated at 5 months or tested for immunity and revaccinated if seronegative. Consult current CDC guidelines for recommendations. (Major) Rubella virus vaccine or Measles/mumps/rubella vaccines, MMR should not be given for at least 3 months following administration of immunoglobulins because antibodies in these products can neutralize the vaccine.
Rilonacept: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving rilonacept. No data are available regarding the use of live vaccines during rilonacept treatment. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Risankizumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to risankizumab recipients. Before initiation of risankizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving risankizumab therapy.
Ritlecitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
riTUXimab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to rituximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving rituximab. At least 4 weeks before initiation of rituximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Rituximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to rituximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving rituximab. At least 4 weeks before initiation of rituximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Rituximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Rozanolixizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Salicylates: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Salsalate: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Sarilumab: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with sarilumab due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during sarilumab treatment has not been established. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving sarilumab. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of sarilumab therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Satralizumab: (Major) Administer all live vaccines according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of satralizumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment with satralizumab.
Secukinumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to secukinumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving secukinumab. Before initiation of secukinumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Secukinumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased. Similar antibody responses were seen when healthy individuals who received a single 150 mg dose of secukinumab 2 weeks before vaccination with a non-US approved group C meningococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine and a non-US approved inactivated seasonal influenza vaccine. The efficacy of meningococcal and influenza vaccines has not been evaluated in patients undergoing treatment with secukinumab.
Sibeprenlimab: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines within 30 days prior to initiation of sibeprenlimab or during treatment as safety has not been established. Sibeprenlimab may interfere with immune responses to vaccines and increase the risk of infection from live vaccines.
Siltuximab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to siltuximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving siltuximab. Before initiation of siltuximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Siltuximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid the use of live vaccines during treatment with siponomid and for 4 weeks after stopping treatment due to the risk of secondary infection. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during siponimod treatment and for 4 weeks after siponimod treatment discontinuation.
Sirolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to sirolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving sirolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of sirolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Sirolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Spesolimab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines during and for at least 16 weeks after spesolimab treatment. Before initiation of spesolimab therapy, consider completion of all age-appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving spesolimab therapy.
Streptozocin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Tacrolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to tacrolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving tacrolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of tacrolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Tacrolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Temozolomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Temsirolimus: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during teriflunomide use, concomitant vaccination with live vaccines is not recommended. The long half-life of teriflunomide should be considered when contemplating administration of a live vaccine after stopping the medication if the teriflunomide drug elimination procedure has not been performed.
Tetanus Immune Globulin, Human, TIG: (Major) Do not give immune globulin including varicella zoster immune globulin concurrently with the varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live. Because of the potential inhibition of the immune response to vaccination by passively transferred antibodies, it is advisable not to give varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live to any patient who has received blood (except washed red blood cells), plasma transfusions, or immunoglobulins within the previous 5 months. After varicella vaccination, the CDC recommends that immune globulin products should not be given for 3 weeks, unless the benefit outweighs the risk; the manufacturer recommends waiting 2 months before administering immunoglobulins. In the case that IgG products are administered within 3 weeks of vaccination, the vaccinee should be either revaccinated at 5 months or tested for immunity and revaccinated if seronegative. Consult current CDC guidelines for recommendations. (Major) Do not vaccinate patients with live virus vaccines for 3 months following administration of tetanus immune globulin. TIG contains antibodies that can interact with live virus vaccines. If is necessary to administer TIG simultaneously with live vaccines, administer at different sites and revaccinate or test for sero-conversion after 3 months.
Tezepelumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tezepelumab recipients. Before initiation of tezepelumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available regarding the response to live vaccines in patients receiving tezepelumab therapy.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Thiotepa: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Tildrakizumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tildrakizumab recipients. Before initiation of tildrakizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving tildrakizumab therapy.
Tisagenlecleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during tisagenlecleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with tisagenlecleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Tocilizumab: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with tocilizumab due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during tocilizumab treatment has not been established. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving tocilizumab. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of tocilizumab therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Tofacitinib: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines to patients taking tofacitinib, as no data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines. Also, no data are available on the response to vaccination with any vaccine during tofacitinib receipt. Before tofacitinib initiation, review the vaccination status of patients, and update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines.
Tralokinumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tralokinumab recipients. Before initiation of tralokinumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving tralokinumab therapy.
Triamcinolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Minor) Temporary suppression to the tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD with the rubella virus vaccine live has been demonstrated. If a tuberculin test is to be done, it is recommended to place the PPD either before or at the same time as the vaccine. (Minor) The measles vaccine live can temporarily suppress tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD, skin sensitivity. Administer a tuberculin test either before or simultaneously with vaccine receipt.
Ublituximab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Upadacitinib: (Major) Avoid use of live vaccines during or immediately prior to upadacitinib therapy initiation. Before initiating upadacitinib, it is recommended that patients be brought up to date with all immunizations, including varicella zoster or prophylactic herpes zoster vaccinations, in agreement with current vaccination guidelines.
Ustekinumab: (Contraindicated) If possible, administer all recommended vaccines before ustekinumab initiation. Ustekinumab recipients may receive inactive vaccines, but the elicited immune response may be insufficient to prevent disease. Do not administer live vaccines to a ustekinumab recipient. Furthermore, do not administer BCG live vaccines for either 1 year before or 1 year after ustekinumab receipt, due to the infectious risk for Mycobacteria. No data are available on the response to live vaccination or on the risk of infection or infection transmission after the administration of other live vaccines to ustekinumab recipients. Cautious administration of ustekinumab to household contacts of ustekinumab recipients may be warranted due to the potential risk for shedding from the household contact and transmission to the patient. Practitioners should also refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Vaccinia Immune Globulin, VIG: (Major) Defer vaccination with live attenuated virus vaccines until approximately 3 months after administration of vaccinia immune globulin (VIG). Inform the immunizing physician of recent therapy with the immune globulin so that appropriate measures can be taken. The efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines may be impaired by vaccinia immune globulin (VIG) administration; revaccination may be necessary. The passive transfer of antibodies from the immune globulin may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines.
valACYclovir: (Major) If possible, discontinue valacyclovir at least 24 hours before administration of the varicella-zoster virus vaccine, live. In patients with HIV, guidelines recommend waiting at least 72 hours after the last dose of valacyclovir before administering varicella vaccines. Also, do not administer valacyclovir for at least 14 days after vaccination. Concurrent administration of any of the varicella-zoster virus vaccines (Zostavax, Varivax, ProQuad) with antiviral medications known to be effective against varicella zoster virus has not been evaluated. Therefore, when possible, a washout period between the use of the antiviral medication and the vaccines is recommended. Valacyclovir has a relatively short serum half-life and is quickly cleared from the body. Refer to the most recent Center for Disease control guidance if concurrent use is necessary.
Vamorolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Varicella-Zoster Immune Globulin: (Major) Efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines such as measles/mumps/rubella Vaccines, MMR; rotavirus vaccine; and varicella virus vaccine live may be impaired by varicella-zoster immune globulin administration; revaccination may be necessary. As the passive transfer of antibodies may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines, defer vaccination with live virus vaccines until approximately 3 months after varicella-zoster immune globulin administration. Guidelines recommend waiting at least 5 months after receipt of the varicella-zoster immune globulin before administering the measles/mumps/rubella Vaccines, MMR. Conversely, if measles/mumps/rubella Vaccines, MMR is given, 2 weeks are recommended to elapse before varicella-zoster immune globulin administration.
Vedolizumab: (Major) Avoid administering live vaccines to vedolizumab recipients unless the benefits outweigh the risks; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vedolizumab. Before initiation of vedolizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vedolizumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid live vaccines to venetoclax recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving venetoclax. Before initiation of venetoclax therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Venetoclax recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
vinCRIStine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Vinorelbine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vinorelbine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vinorelbine. Before initiation of vinorelbine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vinorelbine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Voclosporin: (Major) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: This section discusses the adverse reactions of the Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live. Consult individual drug monographs (varicella virus vaccine live and measles/mumps/rubella vaccines, MMR) for more detailed information.Among 4497 children 12—23 months old who received ProQuad® brand of Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live, most adverse events occurred in a similar or lower percentage of children as compared with 2038 children who received MMR and Varivax® concomitantly at separate injection sites. A rash at the injection site was more common among recipients of ProQuad®. An injection site reaction (symptoms such as pain/soreness/tenderness, erythema, swelling, ecchymosis) occurred in up to 22% of children. Similar results were found in another comparative study of ProQuad® or the MMR and Varivax® given concomitantly at separate injection sites to children 12—23 months of age.Among 4497 children 12—23 months old who received ProQuad® brand of Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live, most adverse events occurred in a similar or lower percentage of children as compared with 2038 children who received MMR and Varivax® concomitantly at separate injection sites. A rash at the injection site was more common among recipients of ProQuad®. Drowsiness, insomnia, nausea/vomiting, anorexia, cough, and rhinorrhea occurred in 0.2—0.9% of children. Similar results were found in another comparative study of ProQuad® or the MMR and Varivax® given concomitantly at separate injection sites to children 12—23 months of age.Among 4497 children 12—23 months old who received ProQuad® brand of Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live, most adverse events (including irritability and diarrhea) occurred in a similar or lower percentage of children as compared with 2038 children who received MMR and Varivax® concomitantly at separate injection sites. Similar results were found in another comparative study of ProQuad® or the MMR and Varivax® given concomitantly at separate injection sites to children 12—23 months of age.Among 4497 children 12—23 months old who received ProQuad® brand of Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live, most adverse events (including varicella-like rash, rash (unspecified), viral exanthema) occurred in a similar or lower percentage of children as compared with 2038 children who received MMR and Varivax® concomitantly at separate injection sites. A measles-like rash and a fever of at least 102 degrees F occurred in more patients who received ProQuad®. The systemic rash occurred in 3% and a fever occurred in 21.5% of children who received ProQuad®, and the events usually occurred 5—12 days after vaccination and were of short duration. A rash at the injection site was also more common among recipients of ProQuad®. Similar results were found in another comparative study of ProQuad® or the MMR and Varivax® given concomitantly at separate injection sites to children 12—23 months of age. Of 2915 children who received ProQuad®, 39.1% had fever of at least 102 degrees F as compared with 33.1% of 1012 children who got the two vaccines at different sites. However, all of the fevers were transient, and the incidence of febrile seizures was identical (0.3%) in the 2 groups. As determined from an interim analysis of a post-marketing observational study in 14,263 children who received their first dose of vaccine, febrile seizures were noted 5—12 days after vaccination in 0.5 per 1000 recipients of ProQuad®. In contrast, in a historical age and gender matched control group of concurrent MMR and Varivax® recipients, the incidence was 0.2 per 1000 recipients. In the 0—30 day time period after vaccination, the incidence of febrile seizures with ProQuad® (1 per 1000) was not greater than that observed in children receiving MMR and Varivax® concomitantly (1.3 per 1000). An increased risk of febrile seizures with Proquad® in the early period after vaccination was also noted in preliminary results from a CDC observational study. A febrile seizure 7—10 days after vaccination with ProQuad® was noted in 9 per 10,000 vaccinations whereas the incidence was 4 per 10,000 vaccinations among recipients of concurrent MMR and Varivax®. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) provisionally recommends that there is no preference for use of ProQuad® over separate administration of MMR and varicella vaccines. Also, the ACIP recommends that a personal or family history of seizures is not a contraindication or precaution for administration of ProQuad®, MMR, or varicella vaccines. Report any clinically significant adverse events after immunization to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System by calling 800—822—7967.Induction of a subclinical infection with attenuated virus particles is expected after vaccine receipt. The measles, mumps, and rubella infection is noncommunicable, but varicella could be transmitted from vaccinated patients to susceptible individuals during the first 6 weeks after vaccination (see Contraindications). Vaccine recipients who develop a varicella-like rash should avoid contact with varicella-susceptible persons for at least 6 weeks after vaccination. Varicella infection and herpes zoster have been noted in vaccine recipients during post-marketing experience. In addition to varicella infection, the albumin contained in the vaccine is derived from human blood and, thus, could be a source of viral transmission. For example, theoretically, Creutzfeld-Jakob disease (CJD) could be transmitted. No cases of CJD or viral disease transmission associated with albumin use have been identified.Anaphylactic reaction, pruritus, ataxia, and seizures have been noted in vaccine recipients during post-marketing experience.Encephalitis has been reported during the ProQuad® post-marketing surveillance period. Encephalitis and encephalopathy have been reported approximately once for every 3 million doses of the combination of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine contained in MMR. Post-marketing surveillance of the more than 400 million doses that have been distributed worldwide (1978 to 2003) indicates that serious adverse events such as encephalitis and encephalopathy continue to be rarely reported. In no case has it been shown conclusively that reactions were actually caused by the vaccine; however, the data suggest the possibility that some of these cases may have been caused by measles vaccines. The risk of encephalitis and encephalopathy after live measles virus vaccine administration remains far less than the risk with wild-type measles (1 per 2000 reported cases). Reports exist of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) in children who did not have a history of infection with wild-type measles but did receive measles vaccine. Some cases may have resulted from unrecognized measles in the first year of life or possibly from the measles vaccination. The association of SSPE cases to measles vaccination is about one case per million vaccine doses distributed, which is far less than the association with infection with wild-type measles (6—22 cases of SSPE per million cases of measles).
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Reye's syndrome has been associated with natural varicella illness. Children and adolescents affected had usually received salicylates. Patients in clinical studies of varicella virus vaccine live were advised not to use salicylates for 6 weeks after vaccination. There were no reports of Reye's syndrome during clinical trials.
ProQuad refrigerator-stable vaccine and ProQuad vaccine adverse reaction profiles were comparable for the 2 different formulations.
    Headline
    ecchymosis, erythema, injection site reaction
    General Information
    Among 4,497 children 12 to 23 months old who received the measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) vaccine, most adverse events occurred in a similar or lower percentage of children as compared with 2,038 children who received MMR and varicella concomitantly at separate injection sites. A rash at the injection site was more common among recipients of MMRV (2.3% vs. 1.5%). An injection site reaction with symptoms such as pain/soreness/tenderness (22% to 30.4%), erythema (5% to 27%), swelling (1% to 9.2%), and ecchymosis (1.5%) was the most common adverse event noted in trials. Erythema was reported more often in patients receiving subcutaneous MMRV (14.3% to 27% overall; 12.8% to 22.5% mild; 1.5% to 4.5% moderate) compared to intramuscular administration (5% to 15.4% overall; 4.5% to 13.9% mild; 1% moderate; 0.5% missing data). Pain was reported more often in patients receiving intramuscular MMRV (10% to 10.9% overall; 8.9% to 9% mild; 0.5% to 2% moderate; 0.5% severe) compared to subcutaneous administration (5.9% to 10% overall; 3.9% to 7% mild; 2% to 3% moderate). Swelling was reported more often in patients receiving subcutaneous MMRV (3.9% to 12.5% overall; 3.9% to 11% mild; 1% moderate; 0.5% missing) compared to intramuscular administration (1% to 6% overall; 1% to 5% mild; 1% moderate). Extravasation has also been reported during postmarketing use of the drug.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    agitation, diarrhea, drowsiness, headache, irritability, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Among children 12 to 23 months old or 4 to 6 years old who received the measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) live vaccine, most adverse events occurred in a similar percentage of children as compared with children who received MMR and varicella virus vaccine concomitantly at separate injection sites. Irritability was noted in 1% to 6.7% of MMRV recipients and in 1% to 6.7% of MMR and varicella virus vaccine recipients. Diarrhea was noted in 0.8% to 1.3% of MMRV recipients and in 1.3% of MMR and varicella virus vaccine recipients. Fewer MMRV recipients ages 12 to 23 months had irritability (2.4%) or diarrhea (0.6%) after the second dose. Headache was noted in 0.8% of MMRV recipients and in 1.6% of MMR and varicella virus vaccine recipients. Vomiting was noted in 0.3% to 1.2% of MMRV recipients and in 0.5% of MMR and varicella virus vaccine recipients. Drowsiness (somnolence) was also noted in 1.2% of MMRV recipients, and nausea may be observed. During postmarketing use of MMRV, cases of agitation, apathy, nervousness, and hypersomnia were reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    aplastic anemia, epistaxis, lymphadenopathy, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Cases of transient thrombocytopenia have been reported within 4 to 6 weeks after vaccination with measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine. Thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, epistaxis, lymphadenitis, and regional lymphadenopathy have been reported with the postmarketing use of measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus vaccine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      aplastic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      lymphadenopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    candidiasis, cough, epididymitis, infection, influenza, parotitis, pharyngitis, pneumonitis, rhinitis, rhinorrhea, sinusitis, sneezing, throat irritation
    General Information
    Induction of a subclinical infection with attenuated virus particles is expected after vaccine receipt. The vaccine virus in measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) may establish latency of varicella-zoster virus in immunocompetent patients, with the potential for later development of herpes zoster. During clinical trials (n = 42,556), 8 cases of herpes zoster were reported in children with an incidence of at least 18.8 cases per 100,000 person-years. One case of herpes zoster was reported in the adolescent and adult age group during 5,410 person-years follow-up, resulting in a calculated incidence of 18.5 cases per 100,000 person-years. All 9 cases were mild and without sequelae. Two cultures (1 child and 1 adult) obtained from vesicles were positive for wild-type VZV. Varicella and herpes zoster infections with the vaccine strain have been noted in vaccine recipients during postmarketing experience. Postmarketing experience suggests that transmission of varicella infection, including disseminated disease, may rarely occur between healthy vaccinees who may or may not develop a varicella-like rash and in both healthy and high-risk contacts. In addition to varicella infection, the albumin contained in the vaccine is derived from human blood and, thus, could be a source of viral transmission. For example, theoretically, Creutzfeld-Jakob disease (CJD) could be transmitted. No cases of CJD or viral disease transmission associated with albumin use have been identified. Cough (1.3% to 2.1%), upper respiratory infection (1% to 1.6%), rhinorrhea (0.5% to 3%), and naso-pharyngitis (0.3%) were reported in patients who received the MMRV during clinical trials. Infection and symptoms of an infection reported during postmarketing use of the drug include atypical measles, bronchitis, candidiasis, epididymitis, herpes simplex, wild-type or vaccine strain herpes zoster, influenza, orchitis, parotitis, pneumonia, pneumonitis, pulmonary congestion, rhinitis, sinusitis, sneezing, throat irritation, and skin infections such as cellulitis and impetigo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      parotitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      throat irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      candidiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sneezing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epididymitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    rash, vesicular rash
    General Information
    In a clinical trial of 6,038 children 12 to 23 months of age, measles-like rash (3% vs. 2.1%) was more common after measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) vaccine administration compared to after the concomitant administration of mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMR) and varicella vaccine at separate injection sites. Overall, the reported incidence of rash (various types) after MMRV administration is approximately 0.6% to 6%, and there appears to be a higher risk of rash with the first dose. A varicella-like or vesicular rash was noted in 1.2% to 2.1% of subcutaneous MMRV recipients. Measles/Measles-like rash (0.5% IM; 1% to 2% subcutaneous administration), Rubella/Rubella-like rash (2% to 3% IM; 1% to 3% subcutaneous administration), Varicella/Varicella-like rash (1% IM; 0.5% to 2% subcutaneous administration), and Mumps-like illness (0.5% IM; 0% subcutaneous administration) were reported during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vesicular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, erythema multiforme, panniculitis, peripheral edema, photosensitivity, pruritus, purpura, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, wheezing
    General Information
    Anaphylactoid reactions, anaphylactic shock, angioneurotic edema (angioedema), facial edema, peripheral edema, acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy, pruritus, bronchospasm, wheezing, erythema multiforme, Henoch-Schonlein purpura, panniculitis, photosensitivity (sunburn), purpura, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and chronic cutaneous granulomas with rubella vaccine virus detected by biopsy have been noted in Measles virus; Mumps virus; Rubella virus; Varicella virus vaccine, live recipients during postmarketing experience or with vaccine components during clinical trials or postmarketing.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      panniculitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, aseptic meningitis, encephalopathy, meningitis
    General Information
    Encephalitis, measles inclusion body encephalitis, encephalopathy, acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), aseptic meningitis, and meningitis have been reported during the postmarketing surveillance period for measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) vaccine. Although not reported with MMRV vaccination, cases of encephalitis or meningitis caused by vaccine strain varicella virus have been reported in immunocompetent individuals months to years after vaccination with varicella virus vaccine. Reported cases were commonly associated with preceding or concurrent herpes zoster rash. No evidence has been found of an association between aseptic meningitis and MMR vaccines containing Jeryl Lynn or Jeryl Lynn-derived mumps strains. Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) has also been reported in the postmarketing surveillance period. Measles inclusion body encephalitis, pneumonitis, and death as a direct consequence of disseminated measles vaccine virus infection have been reported in immunocompromised patients inadvertently vaccinated with measles-containing vaccine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      meningitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      acute disseminated encephalomyelitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      encephalopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      aseptic meningitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    febrile seizures, fever, seizures
    General Information
    In a clinical trial of 6,038 children 12 to 23 months of age, fever (21.5% vs. 68.3%) was more common after measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) vaccine administration compared to after the concomitant administration of mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMR) and varicella vaccine at separate injection sites. A similar incidence of fever was reported after intramuscular (50% to 62.8%) and subcutaneous (47.2% to 68.3%) administration. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends administration of the MMR vaccine and varicella virus vaccine as separate vaccines for the first dose in children 12 to 47 months of age unless the parent or caregiver expresses a preference for the combination MMRV vaccine. When the MMRV combination vaccine is administered as the first dose to children younger than 48 months, the risk of fever and febrile seizures is higher compared to administration of MMR and varicella vaccines at different injection sites. In a postmarketing observational study in 31,298 children who received their first dose of vaccine, febrile seizures were noted 5 to 12 days after vaccination in 0.7 per 1,000 recipients of MMRV vaccine. In an age- and gender-matched historical cohort of children who received concurrent MMR and varicella vaccine, the incidence was 0.32 per 1,000 recipients. In the 0 to 30 day time period after vaccination, the incidence of febrile seizures with MMRV vaccine (1.41 per 1,000) was not statistically greater than that observed in children receiving MMR and varicella vaccine concomitantly (1.28 per 1,000). An increased risk of febrile seizures with MMRV vaccine in the early period after vaccination was also noted in preliminary results from a CDC observational study. A febrile seizure 7 to 10 days after vaccination with MMRV vaccine was noted in 9 per 10,000 vaccinations, whereas the incidence was 4 per 10,000 vaccinations among recipients of concurrent MMR and varicella vaccine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Arthritis, arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain, and myalgia have been identified during postmarketing use of the measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) vaccine. Joint symptoms such as arthralgia and arthritis are associated with the rubella component of the MMRV vaccine. Joint symptoms are usually transient; only rarely have vaccine recipients developed chronic joint symptoms. Among susceptible persons, arthralgia and transient arthritis occur more frequently among adults than among children and more frequently among postpubertal females than among males. Joint pain or stiffness occurs in up to 1 in 4 postpubertal females who were not previously immune to rubella. Symptoms generally begin 1 to 3 weeks after vaccination, are usually mild, and last about 2 days. These symptoms rarely come back.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    ataxia, dizziness, Guillain-Barre syndrome, myelitis, paresthesias, stroke, syncope, tremor
    General Information
    Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), ataxia, Bell's palsy, Guillain-Barre syndrome, cerebrovascular accident (stroke), dizziness, ocular palsies, paresthesias, polyneuropathy, syncope, transverse myelitis, and tremor have been noted during postmarketing experience with measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus vaccine (MMRV).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myelitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Guillain-Barre syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    blepharedema, hearing loss, ocular irritation, optic neuritis, otalgia
    General Information
    Cases of otalgia, hearing loss, ocular irritation, eyelid edema (blepharedema), retinitis, necrotizing retinitis (in immunocompromised individuals), optic neuritis, and retrobulbar neuritis have been reported during postmarketing use of measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus vaccine live. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive cause relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hearing loss
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      otalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      optic neuritis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ocular irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      blepharedema
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    abdominal pain, flatulence, oral ulceration
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported during postmarketing use of measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) live vaccine include abdominal pain, flatulence, hematochezia, and oral ulceration. Evidence does not support a causal association of measles-containing vaccine with risk for Crohn disease or other inflammatory bowel disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    The measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella (MMRV) vaccine may result in temporary suppression of tuberculin reactivity causing a laboratory test interference with a tuberculin skin test. Therefore, administer a tuberculin skin test either before, simultaneously with, or at least 4 to 6 weeks after MMRV vaccination to avoid false-negative results. Additionally, syndromic polymerase chain reaction (PCR) panels may incorrectly identify a measles infection if a patient recently received an MMR vaccine. Approximately 5% of individuals experience a rash after the MMR vaccine; approximately 1% of syndromic panels report a positive measles result after MMR vaccination. Individuals identified with a positive result were pediatric patients without known measles risk who, in most cases, received the vaccine less than 3 weeks beforehand. Inclusion of measles virus in syndromic PCR panels can result in incidental detection of measles vaccines. Health care providers should assess clinical features and vaccine history after a positive test.

Description
  Text
  Measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) vaccine, live is a combination injection consisting of 4 live, attenuated virus vaccinations intended to confer immunity against measles (rubeola), mumps, varicella (chickenpox), and rubella (German measles) viruses. The measles component consists of the Ender's line measles virus obtained from the attenuated Edmonston strain cultured from chick embryos. The mumps component consists of the Jeryl Lynn strain cultured from chick embryos. The rubella component consists of the Wistar Institute RA 27/3 strain of rubella virus propagated in human diploid [WI-38] cells, and the varicella component consists of the Oka/Merck strain of varicella-zoster virus propagated in MRC-5 cells. The antibody responses to each of the antigens in MMRV vaccine were similar compared with the responses after a single dose of the measles virus, mumps virus, rubella virus (MMR) vaccine and varicella virus vaccine given at separate injection sites. When the MMRV combination vaccine is administered as the first dose to children younger than 48 months, the risk of fever and febrile seizures is higher compared to administration of MMR and varicella vaccines at different injection sites. MMRV was approved by the FDA in September 2005.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Active immunization with the vaccine stimulates the immune system to produce disease-specific antibodies by inducing a subclinical infection with attenuated virus particles. The measles, mumps, and rubella infection is noncommunicable, but varicella could be transmitted from vaccinated patients to susceptible individuals during the first 6 weeks after vaccination. Among a subset of 2,107 children enrolled in clinical trials evaluated 1 year after vaccination with measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) vaccine, antibody was detected in 98.9% for measles, 96.7% for mumps, 99.6% for rubella, and 97.5% for varicella. Data from MMR II vaccine indicate antibodies to measles, mumps, and rubella viruses are detectable 11 to 13 years after primary vaccination. Among individuals tested who received 1 dose of varicella vaccine, varicella antibodies are present for up to 10 years.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Subcutaneous Route
    Description
    The refrigerator-stable formulation of ProQuad (n = 1,006) was compared to the frozen formulation of ProQuad (n = 513) in pediatric patients age 12 to 23 months. Both vaccines were administered subcutaneously. A statistical analysis of non-inferiority in antibody response rates and geometric mean titers (GMTs) to measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella at 6 weeks postvaccination showed the immunogenicity of the refrigerator-stable formulation and the frozen formulation of ProQuad were similar. The estimated antibody response rate to measles in the refrigerator-stable formulation was 99.1% and the frozen formulation was 98.5%. The estimated antibody response rate to mumps in the refrigerator-stable formulation was 97.7% and the frozen formulation was 98.0%. The estimated antibody response rate to rubella in the refrigerator formulation was 99.6% and the frozen formulation was 99.6%. The estimated antibody response rate to varacella in the refrigerator formulation was 90.1% and for the frozen formulation was 88.8%.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Children 15 to 31 months
After a second dose of measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) vaccine in children 15 to 31 months, 99% of children had measles antibodies, 99% had mumps antibodies, 98% had rubella antibodies, and 99% had varicella antibodies. Of children who received the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine and the varicella vaccine at least 1 month before MMRV receipt, 99% had seropositivity for each of the 4 antigens.
 
Children 12 to 23 months
Similar antibody responses to each of the antigens are obtained after a single dose of MMRV vaccine as compared with a single dose of the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine and of varicella virus vaccine. After a single MMRV dose, 97% of initially seronegative children 12 to 23 months had measles antibodies, 95% had mumps antibodies, 98% had rubella antibodies, and 91% had varicella antibodies.
  Text
  The measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus vaccine (MMRV), live vaccine is administered intramuscularly or subcutaneously. The distrubution, metabolism, and excretion of the vaccine have not been well defined.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Verify immunization status in the state or local immunization information system in addition to the health care electronic record. If this vaccine has been previously given, question the patient, parent, or guardian about any symptoms or signs of an adverse reaction.
Advise individuals on the benefits and risks of the vaccine. Provide a copy of the Vaccine Information Statement (VIS).
Record manufacturer, lot number, administration date, and the name and address of the person administering the vaccine.
Ensure supportive care, including epinephrine 1 mg/mL injection, is readily accessible in the event of a clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction.
Complete a Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) report if adverse events have been identified. The VAERS toll-free information line is 1-800-822-7967 and email address is info@vaers.org.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intramuscular Administration
      Description
      Preparation
Use only the sterile vaccine diluent supplied with this vaccine, which may be in the form of a vial or a prefilled syringe. This diluent is free from preservatives or other agents that might inactivate the vaccine. Aseptic technique must be observed because the products do not contain preservatives.
If using the supplied vial of diluent, withdraw the entire volume of the supplied diluent from the diluent vial and inject into the vial containing the lyophilized vaccine. If using the supplied prefilled syringe, attach a needle to the prefilled syringe and inject the entire volume of diluent from the syringe slowly into the vaccine vial. Gently agitate to mix thoroughly.
Storage of reconstituted vaccine: May be stored at room temperature, protected from light, for up to 30 minutes. Discard if not used within 30 minutes.
 
Intramuscular Injection
Withdraw the entire volume of the reconstituted vaccine and inject intramuscularly.
      Name
      Subcutaneous Administration
      Description
      Preparation
Use only the sterile vaccine diluent supplied with this vaccine, which may be in the form of a vial or a prefilled syringe. This diluent is free from preservatives or other agents that might inactivate the vaccine. Aseptic technique must be observed because the products do not contain preservatives.
If using the supplied vial of diluent, withdraw the entire volume of the supplied diluent from the diluent vial and inject into the vial containing the lyophilized vaccine. If using the supplied prefilled syringe, attach a needle to the prefilled syringe and inject the entire volume of diluent from the syringe slowly into the vaccine vial. Gently agitate to mix thoroughly.
Storage of reconstituted vaccine: May be stored at room temperature, protected from light, for up to 30 minutes. Discard if not used within 30 minutes.
 
Subcutaneous Injection
Withdraw the entire volume of the reconstituted vaccine and inject subcutaneously.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. When reconstituted, ProQuad is a clear, pale yellow or light pink liquid. Discard if it appears otherwise.
Due to the potential for errors, establish a process to keep vaccines and their corresponding prefilled diluent syringe together if storage requirements do not differ. Prepare only 1 vaccine at a time and relabel the diluent syringe with the vaccine name after reconstitution.
Do not give the measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus; varicella virus (MMRV) via intravenous administration. The vaccine is for subcutaneous or intramuscular administration only.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mL/dose IM or subcutaneous.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. However, consult current immunization schedules for recommended vaccines for use in young dialysis patients; the ACIP states that all routine vaccinations are likely effective in patients with chronic renal disease.
