=== Doxazosin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 209)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Doxazosin is an oral, alpha-adrenergic blocking agent used in the treatment of hypertension and for benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 16 mg/day PO for hypertension and 8 mg/day PO for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agitation, anxiety, ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, paresthesias, angina, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, stroke, syncope, vertigo, gynecomastia, hematuria, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, infection, libido decrease, nocturia, polyuria

In an Overdose: Libido decrease and impotence (erectile dysfunction) have also been rarely reported.In post-marketing experience the following additional adverse reactions have been reported without regard to causality: hypoesthesia (0.5—1%)... Overdosage experience with the immediate-release (IR) formulation of doxazosin is limited.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Blood pressure should be monitored for 2—6 hours following the first dose and with each subsequent increase in dose because postural hypotensive effects are most likely to occur during this time. Dosages should be adjusted as necessary depending on patient tolerance as evidenced by standing blood...

Brand Names
  - Cardura
  - Cardura XL

Dosage Forms
  - Cardura 1mg Tablet
  - Cardura 2mg Tablet
  - Cardura 4mg Tablet
  - Cardura 8mg Tablet
  - Cardura 8mg Tablet
  - Cardura XL 4mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Cardura XL 8mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Doxazosin Mesylate 1mg Oral tablet
  - Doxazosin Mesylate 2mg Oral tablet
  - Doxazosin Mesylate 4mg Oral tablet
  - Doxazosin Mesylate 8mg Oral tablet
  - Doxazosin Mesylate Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (immediate-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 mg PO once daily, initially. May double daily dose as needed if further control is needed. Usual dose range: 1 to 16 mg/day. Max: 16 mg/day.
    Heading
    For treatment of hypertension
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (immediate-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 mg PO once daily, initially. May double the dose every 1 to 2 weeks based on clinical response. Max: 8 mg/day.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (extended-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        4 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose to 8 mg PO once daily after 3 to 4 weeks based on clinical response. If therapy is interrupted for several days, restart at 4 mg PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Blood pressure should be monitored for 2—6 hours following the first dose and with each subsequent increase in dose because postural hypotensive effects are most likely to occur during this time. Dosages should be adjusted as necessary depending on patient tolerance as evidenced by standing blood pressure. Doxazosin should not be administered to any patient who has hypotension (including orthostatic hypotension or syncope). Insufficient data are available from hypertension clinical trials to determine a difference between the effects of doxazosin in elderly vs. younger patients. Elderly patients may be more likely to be susceptible to hypotensive effects at the usual adult dosage, but other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients and the pharmacokinetic profile is not altered by aging. Although doxazosin can be used safely in patients with renal disease, patients with renal impairment or renal failure should be monitored carefully for exaggerated effects, such as first-dose hypotensive reaction or prolonged hypotension. The elderly may also exhibit exaggerated hypotensive effects (e.g., first dose effect) to doxazosin. The safety and effectiveness profile of doxazosin in BPH was similar in patients >= 65 years and < 65 years.Doxazosin should be used with caution in patients with hepatic disease because the drug is primarily metabolized by the liver. Exaggerated effects could occur after normal doses of drug in these patients.Although the drug appears to cross the placenta, animal studies have not revealed evidence of drug-induced fetal harm. Doxazosin is classified as FDA pregnancy category B.It is not known whether doxazosin is distributed into breast milk. Following 1 mg/kg oral dosage, doxazosin accumulates in rat milk with a maximum concentration roughly 20 times greater than the maternal rat plasma concentration. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when doxazosin is administered to a breast-feeding mother.Safety and efficacy of doxazosin have not been established in children.Patients receiving or who have previously received treatment with doxazosin or other alpha-1 blockers may be at risk for intraoperative floppy iris syndrome during ocular surgery for cataracts. Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome is a small pupil syndrome variant that is characterized by a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery, but ophthalmologists should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique such as the use of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    As with other alpha-adrenergic antagonists, doxazosin may cause orthostatic hypotension (postural hypotension, dizziness, and/or vertigo), which can lead to syncope. People starting treatment with doxazosin should be cautioned to avoid situations where syncope could result in an injury, such as driving or operating machinery or completing other activities requiring coordination and concentration, until they are reasonably certain that doxazosin does not affect them adversely.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Doxazosin is a quinazoline derivative structure alpha-1 blocker and is also contraindicated in people with a hypersensitivity to other quinazoline alpha-1 blockers (e.g., terazosin, prazosin).
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Hepatic impairment is expected to increase exposure to doxazosin. Use of doxazosin in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) and hepatic failure is not recommended. People with mild (Child-Pugh class A) to moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment should be monitored closely for signs and symptoms of hypotension while taking doxazosin; monitor blood pressure.
    Headline
    planned procedure
    General Information
    The initiation of doxazosin is not recommended for people who have a planned procedure for cataract or glaucoma surgery scheduled. Use caution in patients currently taking doxazosin who will have these procedures. Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during ocular surgery for cataracts and glaucoma in patients on or previously treated with alpha-1 blockers, including doxazosin. This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation current, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic medications, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. The patient's surgeon should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. There does not appear to be a benefit in stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy such as doxazosin prior to cataract surgery.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The Beers Criteria consider terazosin and other cardiovascular/non-selective alpha-1 blockers as potentially inappropriate medications for geriatric adults. These drugs are not recommended for routine treatment of hypertension in older adults due to the high risk of orthostatic hypotension and the availability of alternatives with a superior benefit to risk profile in this population. Avoid non-selective peripheral alpha-1 blockers in geriatric adults who have a history of syncope that may be due to orthostatic hypotension. Avoid use of alpha-blockers in geriatric women with urinary incontinence (all types) as aggravation of incontinence may occur. Geriatric adults may be more likely to be susceptible to orthostatic hypotensive effects at the usual adult dosage, particularly with initial dosing (first-dose effect) or with an increase in dosage.
    Headline
    constipation, GI obstruction
    General Information
    As with other non-deformable formulations, caution is advised when administering the doxazosin extended-release tablets to people with pre-existing severe pathologic or iatrogenic gastrointestinal (GI) narrowing or GI obstruction. There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in people with known strictures in association with the ingestion of other medications with the same non-deformable extended-release formulation. People with chronic constipation may be at increased risk of adverse effects, as the increased GI retention time from constipation can result in increased doxazosin systemic exposure.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    The limited available data with doxazosin use during pregnancy are not sufficient to inform a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. However, untreated hypertension during pregnancy can result in increased maternal risks. In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed when doxazosin was orally administered to pregnant rabbits and rats during the period of organogenesis at doses of up to 41 and 20 mg/kg, respectively (exposures in rabbits and rats were 10 and 4 times, respectively, the human AUC exposures with a 12 mg/day therapeutic dose). A dosage regimen of 82 mg/kg/day in the rabbit was associated with reduced fetal survival.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use doxazosin with caution during breast-feeding. A single case study reports that doxazosin is present in human milk, which resulted in an infant dose of less than 1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dosage and a milk/plasma ratio of 0.1. However, these data are insufficient to confirm the presence of doxazosin in human milk. There is no information on the effects of doxazosin on the breast-fed child or its effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    The limited available data with doxazosin use during pregnancy are not sufficient to inform a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. However, untreated hypertension during pregnancy can result in increased maternal risks. In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed when doxazosin was orally administered to pregnant rabbits and rats during the period of organogenesis at doses of up to 41 and 20 mg/kg, respectively (exposures in rabbits and rats were 10 and 4 times, respectively, the human AUC exposures with a 12 mg/day therapeutic dose). A dosage regimen of 82 mg/kg/day in the rabbit was associated with reduced fetal survival.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use doxazosin with caution during breast-feeding. A single case study reports that doxazosin is present in human milk, which resulted in an infant dose of less than 1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dosage and a milk/plasma ratio of 0.1. However, these data are insufficient to confirm the presence of doxazosin in human milk. There is no information on the effects of doxazosin on the breast-fed child or its effects on milk production.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension if coadministration of doxazosin and adagrasib is necessary. Concurrent use may result in increased doxazosin exposure. Doxazosin is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Alfuzosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between alfuzosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving alpha-blockers should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. Patients receiving amifostine at doses recommended for chemotherapy should have antihypertensive therapy interrupted 24 hours preceding administration of amifostine. If the antihypertensive cannot be stopped, patients should not receive amifostine.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Amphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving doxazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving doxazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin.
Amphetamines: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving doxazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of doxazosin and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
ARIPiprazole: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with atazanavir. Atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with atazanavir. Atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Avanafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of avanafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving doxazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Due to brexpiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including alpha-blockers. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as doxazosin, is necessary. A doxazosin dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as doxazosin, is necessary. A doxazosin dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with chloramphenicol. Chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving doxazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of alpha-blockers. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
DOBUTamine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
DOPamine: (Major) In general, alpha-blockers should not be used during dopamine infusion. The undesired peripheral vasoconstriction observed with high-dose dopamine is opposed by alpha-adrenergic blockers. The renal, mesenteric, or cerebral vasodilatory properties resulting from dopaminergic-receptor stimulation are not affected by alpha-blockers .
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension if coadministration of doxazosin and ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may result in increased doxazosin exposure. Doxazosin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Carefully monitor blood pressure in patients who have received both ephedrine and alpha-blockers; alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effect of ephedrine.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Carefully monitor blood pressure in patients who have received both ephedrine and alpha-blockers; alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effect of ephedrine.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Epoprostenol: (Minor) Epoprostenol can have additive effects when administered with other antihypertensive agents, including alpha-blockers. These effects can be used to therapeutic advantage, but dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormonal contraceptives should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking alpha-blockers. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Etodolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with fosamprenavir. Fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as doxazosin, is necessary. A doxazosin dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) In general, haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with idelalisib. Idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Further reductions in blood pressure may occur when inhaled iloprost is administered to patients receiving other antihypertensive agents.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy with antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Isoproterenol: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with itraconazole. Itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension if coadministration of doxazosin and ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may result in increased doxazosin exposure. Doxazosin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as doxazosin, is necessary. A doxazosin dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension if coadministration of doxazosin and ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may result in increased doxazosin exposure. Doxazosin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving doxazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin.
Lofexidine: (Major) Because the central alpha-2 agonist effects of lofexidine can cause hypotension and orthostasis, the drug should be avoided, if possible, in combination with other medications that can significantly decrease blood pressure such as the antihypertensive alpha-blockers. If coadministration is required, blood pressure should be monitored, particularly after dose changes of either agent. Adjustments should be made as clinically indicated. Patients being given lofexidine in an outpatient setting should be capable of and instructed on self-monitoring for hypotension, orthostasis, bradycardia, and associated symptoms. If clinically significant or symptomatic hypotension and/or bradycardia occur, the next dose of lofexidine should be reduced in amount, delayed, or skipped.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with ritonavir. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving doxazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of methohexital and alpha-blockers increases the risk of developing hypotension and hypothermia.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Midodrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with nefazodone. Nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with nelfinavir. Nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Nicotine: (Moderate) Nicotine use may reduce the clinical effects of the alpha-blockers. If significant changes in nicotine intake occur, the dosages of these drugs may need adjustment.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with ritonavir. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly. Also, because norepinephrine is an alpha-adrenergic agonist, drugs with alpha-blocking activity such as alpha-blockers directly counteract the vasopressor effects of norepinephrine.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) Caution is advised when administering doxazosin with oxymetazoline. Doxazosin, an alpha adrenergic blocker, would likely antagonize the sympathomimetic effects of oxymetazoline, alpha adrenergic agonists; thereby reducing the effectiveness of oxymetazoline.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and doxazosin who are susceptible to hypotension.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy with antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for desired antihypertensive effect of alpha-blockers when administered with phentermine, Sympathomimetics like phentermine can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with posaconazole. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Alpha-blockers antagonize the pressor effects of epinephrine. Do not use epinephrine to counteract hypotension caused by an alpha-blocker, as a reversal of the pressor effect of epinephrine may result in paradoxical further lowering of blood pressure.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy with antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension if coadministration of doxazosin and relacorilant is necessary. Concurrent use may result in increased doxazosin exposure. Doxazosin is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with ritonavir. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with saquinavir. Saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives may induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients taking antihypertensive agents. Such patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is being obtained.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate. Methylphenidates can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as alpha-blockers.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sildenafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together.
Silodosin: (Major) Silodosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between silodosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sulindac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Tadalafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tadalafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together. In healthy volunteer studies, maximal placebo-subtracted decreases in systolic blood pressure with combination therapy ranged from 1 mmHg to 9.8 mmHg.
Tamsulosin: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide and other agents that slow cardiac conduction such as alpha-blockers should be used cautiously due to the potential for additive bradycardia.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Timolol: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension may be more likely in some patients if beta-blockers are coadministered with alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and for orthostasis, especially at medication initiation.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with tipranavir. Tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if verapamil is used with other antihypertensive agents; an additive blood pressure lowering effect may occur. Using verapamil with agents that attenuate alpha-adrenergic function, such as doxazosin, may result in blood pressure reductions that are excessive in some patients.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) The use of hypotensive agents and tranylcypromine is contraindicated by the manufacturer of tranylcypromine because the effects of hypotensive agents may be markedly potentiated.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and an alpha-blocker may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension. To minimize the risk for harm if concomitant use is necessary, optimize the dose of one medication before starting the other, initiate therapy at the lowest recommended dose, and monitor blood pressure. Both medications are vasodilators and may have an additive blood pressure lowering effect when used together.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if verapamil is used with other antihypertensive agents; an additive blood pressure lowering effect may occur. Using verapamil with agents that attenuate alpha-adrenergic function, such as doxazosin, may result in blood pressure reductions that are excessive in some patients.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for signs of hypotension during coadministration. The plasma concentrations of doxazosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with voriconazole. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxazosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of doxazosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC and an insignificant increase in mean Cmax and mean half-life of doxazosin. Although not studied in combination with doxazosin, strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may have a larger impact on doxazosin concentrations and therefore should be used with caution.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Orthostatic hypotension (9—10%) can occur, especially during the initial dosing of doxazosin. Syncope (0.5—1%) can occur during this reaction, and doxazosin-induced hypotension is more likely to occur following exercise or in volume-depleted patients. Blood pressure should be monitored 2—6 hours following the first dose and with each subsequent increase in dose because hypotensive symptoms are most likely to occur during this time. This reaction has been well described after administration of the first dose of prazosin; however, due to doxazosin's slower onset compared with prazosin, the risk of postural hypotension is less. Dizziness or vertigo can nonetheless occur during doxazosin administration. Nausea/vomiting has been reported in about 4% of patients receiving doxazosin. The major reasons for discontinuation of doxazosin in pre-marketing trials for hypertension included postural effects (2%) as well as peripheral edema, malaise/fatigue, or some type of heart rate disturbance (unspecified), each occurring at a frequency of about 0.7%. In hypertension pre-marketing trials, there was no significant difference in the incidence of adverse effects, except for dizziness (including postural), weight gain, somnolence (drowsiness), fatigue/malaise, hypotension, peripheral edema and dyspnea. Postural effects, dizziness, dyspnea, and edema appeared to be dose-related. Other potential adverse effects reported during doxazosin therapy include abdominal pain, and blurred vision.The alpha-1 blocker tamsulosin is associated with an ocular condition known as intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS). It is not known if doxazosin and other selective alpha-1 receptor blockers are associated with this condition. Tamsulosin selectively blocks alpha-1A receptor subtypes whereas doxazosin and other selective alpha-1 receptor blockers do not distinguish between alpha-1 receptor subtypes 1A, 1B, or 1D. Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome has been reported during cataract surgery in some patients treated with tamsulosin and is a variant of small pupil syndrome. The syndrome is characterized by a triad of a features that distinguish it: 1) a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, 2) progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and 3) potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. Most reports were in patients taking tamsulosin when IFIS occurred, but in some cases, the alpha-1 blocker had been stopped prior to surgery. In most cases, tamsulosin had been discontinued within 2 to 14 days, but in a few cases, IFIS was reported after tamsulosin therapy was stopped for a longer period (5 weeks to 9 months). The mechanism of this syndrome is thought to be inhibition of alpha-1A receptors in the iris. Based on animal data in rabbits, which are purported to have similar iris alpha-1 receptor subtypes to human, tamsulosin selectively blocks the alpha-1A receptors in iris dilator smooth muscle. Since tamsulosin has a long half-life, this alpha-1A receptor blockade in the iris can cause a form of disuse atrophy of the iris dilator smooth muscle. Patients receiving tamsulosin often have poor pupil dilation; amblyopia is reported frequently. The patient's ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. The benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery has not been established. Additional serious but less frequent adverse effects associated with doxazosin administration include headache, angina (0.6% vs. placebo 0.7%), palpitations (1%), and sinus tachycardia (0.9% vs. placebo 0%). Sinus bradycardia has also been reported in post-marketing experience. Rhythm disturbances or palpitations occurred in several patients during doxazosin clinical trials resulting in drug discontinuation.Priapism has been very rarely (probably less frequently than one of several thousand patients) been associated with doxazosin therapy. Libido decrease and impotence (erectile dysfunction) have also been rarely reported.In post-marketing experience the following additional adverse reactions have been reported without regard to causality: hypoesthesia (0.5—1%), gynecomastia, allergic reaction, pruritus, eczema, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, hepatitis, cholestasis, aggravated bronchospasm, hematuria, micturition disorder, micturition frequency, nocturia, and urticaria.There is no experience with overdosage with doxazosin extended-release tablets. Overdosage experience with the immediate-release (IR) formulation of doxazosin is limited. Two adolescents who each intentionally ingested 40 mg doxazosin IR with diclofenac or paracetamol, were treated with gastric lavage with activated charcoal and made full recoveries. A two year old child who accidentally ingested 4 mg doxazosin IR was treated with gastric lavage and remained normotensive during the five hour emergency room observation period. A six month old child accidentally received a crushed 1 mg tablet of doxazosin IR and was reported to have been drowsy. A 32 year old female with chronic renal failure, epilepsy, and depression intentionally ingested 60 mg doxazosin IR (blood level 0.9 mcg/ml; normal values in hypertensives is approximately 0.02 mcg/ml); death was attributed to a grand mal seizure resulting from hypotension. A 39 year old female who ingested 70 mg doxazosin IR, alcohol, and flurazepam (Dalmane®) developed hypotension which responded to fluid therapy. The most likely manifestation of overdosage would be hypotension, for which the usual treatment would be intravenous infusion of fluid, keeping the patient in the supine position, and, in certain circumstances, the administration of vasopressors. As doxazosin is highly protein bound, dialysis would not be indicated.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, paresthesias
    General Information
    During clinical trials for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), the following centrally-mediated (CNS) effects occurred in at least 1% of patients receiving doxazosin and more frequently than in those receiving placebo: dizziness (15.6% vs 9%), drowsiness (3% vs 1%), anxiety (1.1% vs 0.3%), insomnia (1.2% vs 0.3%), and headache (9.9% vs 9%). During clinical trials for hypertension, the following CNS effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving doxazosin than placebo: dizziness (19% vs 9%), drowsiness (5% vs 1%), kinetic disorders (1% vs 0%), ataxia (1% vs 0%), and hypertonia (1% vs 0%). In two controlled-trials, the following CNS effects were reported in patients treated with extended-release doxazosin, immediate-release doxazosin, and placebo, respectively: dizziness (5.3%, 9.1%, 1.9%), drowsiness (1.5%, 1.2%, 0%), and headache (6%, 5.1%, 4.5%). Hypoesthesia, paresthesias, agitation, and nervousness have been reported during post-market use. Dizziness may be associated with orthostasis in some instances.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    angina, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, stroke, syncope, vertigo
    General Information
    During clinical trials for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), the following adverse cardiovascular events occurred in at least 1% of patients receiving doxazosin and more frequently than with placebo: hypotension (1.7%), palpitations (1.2%), edema (2.7%), and chest pain (unspecified) (1.2%). Less frequent effects included syncope (0.5%) and sinus tachycardia (0.9%). During clinical trials for hypertension, the following cardiac effects were reported in more patients receiving doxazosin than placebo: vertigo (2%), orthostatic hypotension (0.3%), edema (4%), arrhythmia (1%), hypotension (1%), and peripheral ischemia (0.3%). In 2 controlled-trials, the following cardiac effects were reported in patients treated with extended-release doxazosin, immediate-release doxazosin, and placebo, respectively: hypotension (1.7%, 1.8%, 0%), orthostatic hypotension (1.2%, 2.2%, 0.6%), and vertigo (1.5%, 4.1%, 0.6%). Other cardiac effects reported in less than 1% of doxazosin recipients included angina pectoris, syncope, tachycardia, chest pain, and palpitations. Discontinuation of doxazosin is recommended in patients who report new or worsening angina while taking the medication. Similar to other alpha-adrenergic antagonists, doxazosin may cause orthostatic hypotension that is significant following initial dosing. Syncope and/or dizziness can occur. Doxazosin-induced hypotension is more likely following exercise or in volume-depleted patients. Monitor blood pressure 2 to 6 hours following the first dose and with each subsequent increase in dosage, because hypotensive symptoms are most likely to occur during this time. This reaction has been well described after administration of the first dose of prazosin; however, due to doxazosin's slower onset compared with prazosin, the risk of postural hypotension is reduced. Cardiac events associated with treatment discontinuation of doxazosin in pre-marketing trials for hypertension included postural effects (2%), edema (0.7%), and heart rate disturbance (unspecified) (0.7%). Postural effects, including dizziness, appeared to be dose-related. Sinus bradycardia, stroke, postural dizziness, unspecified arrhythmias, and myocardial infarction have been reported in postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    gynecomastia, hematuria, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, infection, libido decrease, nocturia, polyuria, priapism, urinary incontinence
    General Information
    During clinical trials for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), the following adverse reproductive or genitourinary (GU) effects occurred in more patients receiving doxazosin than placebo: impotence (erectile dysfunction) (1.1%) and libido decrease (0.8%). During clinical trials for hypertension, the following reproductive or GU effects were reported in more patients receiving doxazosin than placebo: unspecified sexual dysfunction (2%), polyuria (2%), and urinary incontinence (1%). In 2 controlled-trials, urinary tract infection was reported in patients treated with extended-release doxazosin, immediate-release doxazosin, and placebo, respectively (1.4%, 0.8%, 0.6%). Priapism, hematuria, micturition disorder, gynecomastia, increased urinary frequency, polyuria, and nocturia have been reported during postmarketing use. Priapism, if not treated promptly, can result in irreversible damage to the erectile tissue and permanent erectile dysfunction.  Advise patients about the serious nature of this condition and to seek emergency medical attention if priapism occurs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      priapism
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nocturia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gynecomastia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, jaundice
    General Information
    Hepatitis, cholestasis (cholestatic hepatitis), elevated hepatic enzymes, and jaundice have been reported during post-marketing use of doxazosin. The frequencies are unknown and causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cholestasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    floppy iris syndrome
    General Information
    Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients treated with alpha-1 blockers, including doxazosin. Clinicians should be prepared for possible modifications to the surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. The syndrome is characterized by a triad of a features that distinguish it: 1) a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, 2) progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and 3) potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      floppy iris syndrome
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    blurred vision, tinnitus, visual impairment
    General Information
    During clinical trials for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), the following ophthalmic effect occurred in at least 1% of patients receiving doxazosin and more frequently than in those receiving placebo: visual impairment (1.4% vs 0.7%). During clinical trials for hypertension, the following ophthalmic or otic effects occurred more frequently in the group receiving active treatment than placebo: visual impairment (2% vs 1%) and tinnitus (1% vs 0.3%). Blurred vision has been reported during post-market use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, GI obstruction, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    During clinical trials for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), the following gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred in at least 1% of patients receiving doxazosin and more frequently than placebo: abdominal pain (2.4% vs 2%), diarrhea (2.3% vs 2%), nausea (1.5% vs 0.7%), and xerostomia (1.4% vs 0.3%). During clinical trials for hypertension, the incidences of several GI effects were similar between the active treatment group and placebo including xerostomia (2%), constipation (1%), dyspepsia (1%), and flatulence (1%). In two controlled-trials, the following GI effects were reported in patients treated with extended-release doxazosin, immediate-release doxazosin, and placebo, respectively: dyspepsia (1.4%, 1.2%, 0%), nausea (1.2%, 2.3%, 0.6%), and abdominal pain (1.8%, 2.3%, 0.6%). Vomiting, GI obstruction, and anorexia have been reported during post-market use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      GI obstruction
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    bronchospasm, dyspnea, epistaxis, rhinitis
    General Information
    During clinical trials for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), the following respiratory effects occurred in at least 1% of patients receiving doxazosin and more frequently than in those receiving placebo: dyspnea (2.6% vs 0.3%) and unspecified respiratory disorder (1.1% vs 0.7%). During clinical trials for hypertension, the following upper respiratory effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving doxazosin than placebo: rhinitis (3% vs 1%) and epistaxis (1% vs 0%). In two controlled-trials, the following respiratory effects were reported in patients treated with extended-release doxazosin, immediate-release doxazosin, and placebo, respectively: dyspnea (1.2%, 1.2%, 0%) and respiratory tract infection (4.8%, 4.5%, 1.9%). Aggravated bronchospasm has been reported during post-market use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    arthralgia, muscle cramps, myalgia, myasthenia
    General Information
    During clinical trials for hypertension, the following musculoskeletal effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving doxazosin than placebo: muscle cramps (1% vs 0%), arthralgia/arthritis (1% vs 0%), myasthenia (1% vs 0%), and myalgia (1% vs 0%). In two controlled-trials, myalgia was reported in 1.4% of patients treated with extended-release doxazosin, 0.5% of patients receiving immediate-release doxazosin, and 0% of patients receiving placebo. Muscle cramps and myasthenia have been reported during post-market use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myasthenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia, flushing, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria
    General Information
    During clinical trials for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), the following adverse dermatologic effect occurred in at least 1% of patients receiving doxazosin and more frequently than in those receiving placebo: hyperhidrosis (1.1% vs 1%). During clinical trials for hypertension, flushing was reported more frequently in patients receiving doxazosin than placebo (1% vs 0%). Urticaria, alopecia, rash (unspecified), pruritus, and hot flushes have been reported during post-market use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue, influenza, malaise
    General Information
    During clinical trials for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), the following general effects occurred in at least 1% of patients receiving doxazosin and more frequently than in those receiving placebo: fatigue (8% vs 1.7%), influenza (influenza-like symptoms 1.1% vs 1%), and pain (2% vs 1%). During clinical trials for hypertension, the following general effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving doxazosin than placebo: fatigue (12% vs 6%) and facial edema (1% vs 0%). In two controlled-trials, asthenia was reported in 3.9% of patients treated with extended-release doxazosin, 6.9% of patients receiving immediate-release doxazosin, and 1.3% of patients receiving placebo. Unspecified allergic reaction, fatigue, and malaise have been reported during post-market use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    leukopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and purpura have been reported during post-market use of doxazosin; however, the frequencies are unknown and causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Doxazosin is an oral, alpha-adrenergic blocking agent used in the treatment of hypertension and for benign prostatic hyperplasia. It is pharmacologically similar to prazosin and terazosin but has the longest duration of action of the group. Doxazosin is a potent, long-acting antihypertensive with minimal adverse reactions. It can be dosed once daily. A recent landmark clinical trial (ALLHAT) compared doxazosin to chlorthalidone in the treatment of high-risk hypertensive patients. In this study, only the diuretic significantly reduced the risk of combined cardiovascular disease events, especially heart failure; whereas doxazosin did not. These results led to discontinuation of the doxazosin treatment arm of the study. Doxazosin was originally approved by the FDA in November 1990 for the treatment of hypertension and was subsequently approved for the treatment of BPH in April 1995.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Doxazosin competitively inhibits alpha-1-adrenergic receptors in the sympathetic nervous system. Doxazosin causes peripheral vasodilation, reducing peripheral vascular resistance and blood pressure. It causes the blood pressure to decrease in both the standing and the supine positions. Standing heart rates increase slightly, and the drug's effects on blood pressure and heart rate are more pronounced while the patient is standing. Doxazosin also alters lipid metabolism, decreasing the levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides, and increasing the high-density lipoprotein/total cholesterol ratio. The implications of these changes are not known. As an antihypertensive, doxazosin does not worsen and may decrease LVH, does not worsen insulin resistance, and exerts mild to negligible effects on sexual dysfunction.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Doxazosin is well absorbed orally; bioavailability is approximately 65%. Food minimally affects the bioavailability of doxazosin (reduced mean peak plasma concentrations by 18% and reduced AUC by 12% in one study).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Renal failure does not significantly alter the elimination half-life of doxazosin.
    Name
    Elderly
    Description
    Advanced age does not significantly alter the elimination half-life of doxazosin.
  Text
  Doxazosin is administered orally.  The primary hypotensive effect is usually evident from 2 hours onward, with peak hypotensive effects occurring in 5—6 hours. Antihypertensive effects of a single dose of doxazosin last approximately 24 hours. The drug is extensively protein-bound (98%). Although it appears to cross the placenta, animal studies have not revealed evidence of drug-induced fetal harm. It is not known whether doxazosin is distributed in the breast milk of humans, but studies in rats suggest accumulation in breast milk does occur.
 
Doxazosin is highly metabolized in the liver, with the majority of an oral dose being eliminated via the feces and the remainder (9%) excreted in the urine. Enterohepatic recycling is suggested by significant fecal elimination of drug and secondary peaking of doxazosin plasma concentrations. Elimination is biphasic, and terminal elimination half-life is approximately 22 hours.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Immediate-release tablets: May be administered orally without regard to meals.
Extended-release tablets: Administer once daily with breakfast. Prior to starting therapy with the extended-release tablets, the final evening dose of the immediate-release tablets should not be taken.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Observe for postural hypotension, particularly with first dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    16 mg/day PO for hypertension and 8 mg/day PO for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    16 mg/day PO for hypertension and 8 mg/day PO for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No specific recommendations are available for hepatic disease. Since doxazosin is extensively metabolized, it is prudent to start with the lowest initial adult dosage (1 mg PO once daily in the morning or at bedtime). Adjust dosage based on response.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is needed.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
No dosage adjustment is needed; doxazosin is highly protein bound and is not removed during hemodialysis.
