=== Voxelotor (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5179)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1,500 mg/day PO.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

Brand Names
  - Oxbryta

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1,500 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        1,500 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children 4 to 11 years weighing 40 kg or more
        Dosage Description
        1,500 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children 4 to 11 years weighing 20 to 39 kg
        Dosage Description
        900 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children 4 to 11 years weighing 10 to 19 kg
        Dosage Description
        600 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of sickle cell disease

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Voxelotor dosage adjustment is required for individuals with hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class C); severe hepatic impairment increases voxelotor exposure.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on voxelotor use during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration during organogenesis at exposures up to 2.8-times (rats) and 0.3-times (rabbits) the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose resulted in no adverse developmental effects. Pregnant people with sickle cell disease are at increased risk for vaso-occlusive crises, preeclampsia, eclampsia, and maternal mortality. The fetus is at increased risk for intrauterine growth restriction, preterm delivery, low birth weight, and perinatal mortality. Use voxelotor during pregnancy only if the benefit of the drug outweighs the risk.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking voxelotor and for at least 2 weeks after the last dose. There is a potential for serious adverse reactions in the breast-fed child, including changes in the hematopoietic system. However, there are no data on the presence of voxelotor in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Voxelotor was detected in the milk of lactating rats at concentrations that were lower than the concentration in plasma.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on voxelotor use during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration during organogenesis at exposures up to 2.8-times (rats) and 0.3-times (rabbits) the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose resulted in no adverse developmental effects. Pregnant people with sickle cell disease are at increased risk for vaso-occlusive crises, preeclampsia, eclampsia, and maternal mortality. The fetus is at increased risk for intrauterine growth restriction, preterm delivery, low birth weight, and perinatal mortality. Use voxelotor during pregnancy only if the benefit of the drug outweighs the risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking voxelotor and for at least 2 weeks after the last dose. There is a potential for serious adverse reactions in the breast-fed child, including changes in the hematopoietic system. However, there are no data on the presence of voxelotor in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Voxelotor was detected in the milk of lactating rats at concentrations that were lower than the concentration in plasma.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Abemaciclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with voxelotor. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. If voxelotor is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with voxelotor may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with voxelotor may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of voxelotor could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like voxelotor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If voxelotor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. If voxelotor is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like voxelotor can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If voxelotor is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of systemic budesonide with voxelotor due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. If voxelotor is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like voxelotor can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If voxelotor is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with voxelotor. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and voxelotor due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with voxelotor, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amiodarone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiodarone exposure. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and apalutamide as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to substantially increased exposure of aprepitant. Fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant; therefore, a similar interaction is likely. Aprepitant is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Administration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the aprepitant AUC by 2-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of voxelotor. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus voxelotor may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with voxelotor may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of voxelotor could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. If voxelotor is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like voxelotor can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If voxelotor is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Avanafil: (Major) Do not exceed an avanafil dose of 50 mg once every 24 hours in patients receiving voxelotor. Coadministration may increase avanafil exposure. Avanafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Administration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the avanafil AUC by 3-fold and prolonged the half-life to approximately 8 hours.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with voxelotor due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and voxelotor due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like voxelotor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If voxelotor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and bexarotene as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and bosentan as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. The systemic exposure of bosentan may also be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; bosentan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Bosutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bosutinib and voxelotor as bosutinib plasma exposure may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of bosutinib adverse events (e.g., myelosuppression, GI toxicity). Bosutinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The Cmax and AUC values of bosutinib were increased 1.5-fold and 2-fold, respectively, when bosutinib 500 mg PO was administered with a single dose of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of voxelotor with brexpiprazole is necessary, as the systemic exposure of brexpiprazole may be increased resulting in an increase in brexpiprazole-related adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of brexpiprazole to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose if brexpiprazole and voxelotor are coadministered with a moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP2D6 or if the patient is a poor metabolizer of CYP2D6. If voxelotor is discontinued, adjust the brexpiprazole dosage to its original level. Brexpiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the exposure of brexpiprazole compared to use of brexpiprazole alone.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with voxelotor if possible due to increased plasma exposure of brigatinib; an increase in brigatinib-related adverse reactions may occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of brigatinib by approximately 40% without breaking tablets (i.e., from 180 mg to 120 mg; from 120 mg to 90 mg; from 90 mg to 60 mg); after discontinuation of voxelotor, resume the brigatinib dose that was tolerated prior to initiation of voxelotor. Brigatinib is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 40%.
Bromocriptine: (Major) Reduce the bromocriptine dosage during concomitant use with voxelotor; bromocriptine dosage reduction recommendations vary by indication and dosage form. For the treatment of type 2 diabetes with micronized bromocriptine quick-release tablets, do not exceed a bromocriptine dosage of 1.6 mg once daily. For all other indications and dosage forms, reduce the initial bromocriptine dosage to 1.25 mg once daily and reduce the maximum bromocriptine dosage to: 3.75 mg once daily for hyperprolactinemia-associated dysfunction, 2.5 mg once daily for prolactin-secreting adenomas, 25 mg once daily for acromegaly, and 12.5 mg twice daily for idiopathic or postencephalitic parkinsonism. Concomitant use may increase bromocriptine exposure. Bromocriptine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased bromocriptine exposure by up to 3.7-fold.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of systemic budesonide with voxelotor due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of systemic budesonide with voxelotor due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of systemic budesonide with voxelotor due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and voxelotor can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when voxelotor is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping voxelotor, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If voxelotor is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and voxelotor is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and voxelotor can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when voxelotor is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping voxelotor, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If voxelotor is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and voxelotor is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in buspirone-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary; the effect may be more pronounced if the patient has been titrated to a stable dose of buspirone and voxelotor is added or removed from therapy. Buspirone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased buspirone exposure by 3.4 to 6-fold and was accompanied by increased buspirone-related adverse reactions.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with voxelotor may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of voxelotor could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with voxelotor may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of voxelotor could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with voxelotor may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Capivasertib: (Major) Reduce the dose of capivasertib to 320 mg PO twice daily for 4 days followed by 3 days off if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary; monitor for adverse reactions. Concomitant use may increase capivasertib exposure which may increase the risk for capivasertib-related adverse effects. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of capivasertib by up to 1.5-fold.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and carbamazepine as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Additionally, monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely during coadministration as exposure may be increased; dose adjustments may be needed. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Cariprazine: (Major) A cariprazine dosage reduction may be required during concomitant use with voxelotor. Cariprazine dosage modification recommendations vary by indication, previous exposure to cariprazine, and age. When initiating cariprazine in adults receiving voxelotor, reduce the cariprazine starting dose to 0.75 mg PO once daily; in adults with schizophrenia or bipolar mania, the cariprazine dose may be increased to 1.5 mg PO once daily, if needed, based on clinical response. Avoid initiating cariprazine in pediatric patients receiving voxelotor. When adding voxelotor to a stable dose of cariprazine, reduce the cariprazine dosage: from 1.5 mg or 3 mg once daily to 0.75 mg once daily, from 4.5 or 6 mg once daily to 1.5 mg once daily. Concomitant use increases cariprazine exposure and the risk for cariprazine-related adverse effects. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased cariprazine overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of voxelotor, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and cenobamate as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with voxelotor may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of voxelotor could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like voxelotor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If voxelotor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cilostazol: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with voxelotor and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and voxelotor; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for increased sedation and respiratory depression if clonazepam is coadministered with voxelotor; adjust the dose of clonazepam if necessary. The systemic exposure of clonazepam may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Clonazepam is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with voxelotor and monitor for adverse reactions. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A. Voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid using cobimetinib and voxelotor together for more than 14 days due to the risk for cobimetinib toxicity. For short-term coadministration, defined as 14 days or less of combination therapy, reduce the dose of cobimetinib to 20 mg once daily for patients normally taking 60 mg per day; consider alternative therapy for patients already taking a reduced dose of cobimetinib (40 or 20 mg per day). After discontinuation of voxelotor, resume cobimetinib 60 mg per day. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Simulations have demonstrated that a short course of cobimetinib 20 mg once daily taken with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor produces similar concentrations to cobimetinib 60 mg per day alone.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with voxelotor may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of voxelotor could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with voxelotor may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of voxelotor could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with voxelotor may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of voxelotor could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with voxelotor may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of voxelotor could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with voxelotor may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of voxelotor could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with voxelotor may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of voxelotor could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If voxelotor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and voxelotor due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce a dose of 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg twice daily or 0.6 mg once daily; reduce a dose of 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once daily. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 1.2 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 1.2 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased colchicine overall exposure by 1.4- to 1.9-fold.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of voxelotor with medroxyprogesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of medroxyprogesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Medroxyprogesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in crizotinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary; crizotinib exposure may increase. Crizotinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and dabrafenib as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 200 mg once daily if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Daridorexant: (Major) Limit the daridorexant dose to 25 mg if coadministered with voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase daridorexant exposure and the risk for daridorexant-related adverse effects. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased daridorexant overall exposure 2.4-fold.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with voxelotor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased darunavir-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir. Darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for increased darunavir-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir. Darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for increased darunavir-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir. Darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Deflazacort: (Major) Decrease deflazacort dose to one-third of the recommended dosage when coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may significantly increase concentrations of 21-desDFZ, the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in an increased risk of toxicity. Deflazacort is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and for quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may result in increased plasma concentrations of quinidine. Quinidine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and voxelotor is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Dihydroergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate if coadministration of diltiazem with voxelotor is necessary. Concurrent use may result in elevated diltiazem concentrations. Diltiazem is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with voxelotor may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and voxelotor due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with voxelotor due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of CYP3A inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with voxelotor due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of CYP3A inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence) of dronabinol if coadministered with voxelotor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dronedarone during coadministration of voxelotor as concurrent use may increase the exposure of dronedarone. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of voxelotor with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A inhibition.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity if duvelisib is coadministered with voxelotor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of duvelisib, increasing the risk of toxicity. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and efavirenz as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and efavirenz as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and efavirenz as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elacestrant and voxelotor due to the risk of increased elacestrant exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased elacestrant overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and elagolix as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and elagolix as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) If voxelotor and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor to every other day in the morning when coadministered with voxelotor; omit the ivacaftor evening dose and administer in the morning every other day alternating with elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor (i.e., recommended dose of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor on day 1 in the morning and recommended dose of ivacaftor on day 2 in the morning). Coadministration may increase elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. Elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 2.9-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase elexacaftor and tezacaftor exposure by 2.3-fold and 2.1-fold, respectively. (Moderate) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with voxelotor; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of eliglustat with voxelotor in intermediate or poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (IMs or PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs), coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Concurrent use is contraindicated in EMs and IMs also receiving a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. Concurrent use may result in unexpectedly high plasma concentrations of eliglustat, further increasing the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., cardiac arrhythmias).
Elinzanetant: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for cobicistat-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor as concurrent use may increase cobicistat exposure. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with voxelotor may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with voxelotor may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and encorafenib due to the risk of decreased voxelotor exposure which may reduce its efficacy and increased encorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, dosage adjustments are recommended for both drugs. Increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. For encorafenib, a dosage reduction is also required: reduce a daily dose of 450 mg to 225 mg, reduce a daily dose of 300 mg to 150 mg, reduce the daily dose to 75 mg for all other dosages. Voxelotor is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased encorafenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with voxelotor due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with voxelotor due to increased entrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for entrectinib-related adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary in adults and pediatric patients 2 years and older, reduce the dose of entrectinib (600 mg/day or 400 mg/day to 200 mg/day; 300 mg/day to 100 mg/day; 200 mg/day to 50 mg/day) and limit coadministration to 14 days or less. For pediatric patients with a starting dose less than 200 mg, avoid coadministration. Entrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a strong moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of entrectinib by 3-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and enzalutamide as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Eplerenone: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with voxelotor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving voxelotor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating voxelotor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate. Voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Ergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and eslicarbazepine as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Etrasimod: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and voxelotor in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and etravirine as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Additionally, monitor for an increase in etravirine-related adverse reactions during coadministration as exposure may be increased. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; etravirine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Simvastatin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and voxelotor should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and half-life by approximately 2.5-fold and 2-fold, respectively.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. If voxelotor is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like voxelotor can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If voxelotor is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of both drugs and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is necessary, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is also a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or voxelotor; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 248%.
Flibanserin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of flibanserin and voxelotor is contraindicated due to increased flibanserin exposure, which can result in severe hypotension and syncope. If initiating flibanserin following use of voxelotor, start flibanserin at least 2 weeks after the last dose of voxelotor. If initiating voxelotor following flibanserin use, start voxelotor at least 2 days after the last dose of flibanserin. Flibanserin is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased fosamprenavir toxicity if coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of fosamprenavir. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and phenytoin/fosphenytoin as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Gepirone: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for gepotidacin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary; avoid use if gepotidacin is being used to treat gonorrhea. Concomitant use may increase gepotidacin exposure and the risk for gepotidacin-related adverse effects. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase gepotidacin overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
guanFACINE: (Major) Decrease the dose of extended-release guanfacine by 50% if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary; if voxelotor is discontinued, the dose of extended-release guanfacine may be increased to the recommended level. Monitor patients closely for adverse effects including hypotension, drowsiness, lethargy, and bradycardia. Recommendations for immediate-release guanfacine are not available. Guanfacine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like voxelotor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If voxelotor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like voxelotor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If voxelotor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like voxelotor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If voxelotor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and voxelotor due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Ibrutinib: (Major) If ibrutinib is coadministered with voxelotor, reduce the initial ibrutinib dosage to 280 mg/day PO in patients receiving ibrutinib for a B-cell malignancy. Resume ibrutinib at the previous dose if voxelotor is discontinued. No initial ibrutinib dosage adjustment is necessary in patients receiving ibrutinib for chronic graft-versus-host disease. Monitor patients for ibrutinib toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, bleeding, infection); modify the ibrutinib dosage as recommended if toxicity occurs. Ibrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with multiple doses of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased steady-state ibrutinib exposure by 3-fold.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of ifosfamide if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Ifosfamide is metabolized by CYP3A to its active alkylating metabolites. Voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of these active metabolites, decreasing the effectiveness of ifosfamide treatment.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and voxelotor. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ivabradine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivabradine and voxelotor as increased concentrations of ivabradine are possible, which may result in bradycardia exacerbation and conduction disturbances. Ivabradine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the AUC of ivabradine by 2- to 3-fold.
Ivacaftor: (Major) If voxelotor and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with voxelotor due to increased plasma concentrations of ivosidenib, which increases the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. Ivosidenib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the ivosidenib single-dose AUC to 173% of control based on physiologically-based pharmacokinetic modeling, with no change in Cmax. Multiple doses of the moderate CYP3A inhibitor are predicted to increase the ivosidenib steady-state AUC to 152% of control and AUC to 190% of control.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in larotrectinib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase larotrectinib exposure. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase larotrectinib exposure by 2.7-fold.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for lefamulin-related adverse effects if oral lefamulin is administered with voxelotor as concurrent use may increase exposure from lefamulin tablets; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and voxelotor as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the lemborexant overall exposure by up to 4.5-fold.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of voxelotor and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with voxelotor is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and voxelotor is contraindicated; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and lorlatinib as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and lumacaftor; ivacaftor as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%. (Major) If voxelotor and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and lumacaftor; ivacaftor as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Lumateperone: (Major) Reduce the dose of lumateperone to 21 mg once daily if concomitant use of voxelotor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase lumateperone exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased lumateperone exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Lurasidone: (Major) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone is 20 mg daily (maximum, 80 mg daily) if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Reduce the lurasidone dose to half of its original dose level if voxelotor is added to existing lurasidone therapy. Lurasidone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased lurasidone exposure by 116%.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lurbinectedin and voxelotor due to the risk of increased lurbinectedin exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of lurbinectedin by 50%. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the overall exposure of lurbinectedin by up to 2.3-fold.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Maraviroc is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors may result in increased maraviroc concentrations.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting voxelotor therapy. Avoid initiation of voxelotor in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable voxelotor therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of voxelotor with medroxyprogesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of medroxyprogesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Medroxyprogesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary as concurrent use may increase mefloquine exposure and mefloquine-related adverse events. Mefloquine is a substrate of CYP3A and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. If voxelotor is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with voxelotor can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. If voxelotor is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with voxelotor can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Methylergonovine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of midazolam with voxelotor. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with voxelotor and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and mitotane as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and voxelotor; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and nafcillin as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with voxelotor. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Naloxegol: (Major) Avoid concomitant administration of naloxegol and voxelotor due to the potential for increased naloxegol exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, decrease the naloxegol dosage to 12.5 mg once daily and monitor for adverse reactions including opioid withdrawal symptoms such as hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, irritability, and yawning. Naloxegol is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased naloxegol exposure by approximately 3.4-fold.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of nab-paclitaxel with voxelotor is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A inhibitors.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of voxelotor. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of nelfinavir if coadministered with voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentrations of nelfinavir. Nelfinavir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Careful monitoring and dose adjustment of nifedipine may be necessary if administered with voxelotor as nifedipine exposure and adverse effects may be increased. Consider initiating nifedipine at the lowest dose. Nifedipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and voxelotor due to the risk for increased nirogacestat exposure which may increase the risk for nirogacestat-related adverse effects. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase nirogacestat overall exposure by 2.73- to 3.18-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with voxelotor due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with voxelotor due to the risk of increased olaparib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of olaparib to 150 mg twice daily; the original dose may be resumed 3 to 5 elimination half-lives after voxelotor is discontinued. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; concomitant use may increase olaparib exposure. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the olaparib Cmax by 14% and the AUC by 121%.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and voxelotor is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and voxelotor may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If voxelotor is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and voxelotor. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and rifabutin as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Oveporexton: (Major) Decrease the oveporexton dosage to 0.5 mg twice daily if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase oveporexton exposure and the risk for oveporexton-related adverse reactions. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased oveporexton overall exposure by 2.9-fold.
oxyBUTYnin: (Minor) Monitor for oxybutynin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Oxybutynin is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with moderate CYP3A inhibitors may alter the mean pharmacokinetic parameters of oxybutynin, although the clinical relevance of these potential interactions is unknown.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. If voxelotor is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like voxelotor can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If voxelotor is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of paclitaxel with voxelotor is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A inhibitors.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of voxelotor and pacritinib as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. The exposure of pacritinib may also be increased leading to increased risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and voxelotor due to the risk for increased palovarotene exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the palovarotene dose by half. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased palovarotene overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and voxelotor due to the risk of increased pemigatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pemigatinib to 9 mg PO once daily if original dose was 13.5 mg per day and to 4.5 mg PO once daily if original dose was 9 mg per day. If voxelotor is discontinued, resume the original pemigatinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of voxelotor. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase pemigatinib exposure by approximately 50% to 80%.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pexidartinib and voxelotor due to the risk of increased pexidartinib exposure and decreased voxelotor exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, the dose of both drugs will need to be adjusted. Dose adjustments for pexidartinib are as follows: 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg twice daily; 250 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg once daily. For voxelotor, increase dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments for voxelotor are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Pexidartinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer; voxelotor is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pexidartinib overall exposure by 67%. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and phenytoin/fosphenytoin as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and voxelotor. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Pivekimab sunirine: (Moderate) Monitor for pivekimab sunirine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to FGN849, the cytotoxic component of pivekimab sunirine. FGN849 is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of voxelotor with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 71%.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and voxelotor due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce a dose of 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg twice daily or 0.6 mg once daily; reduce a dose of 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once daily. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 1.2 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 1.2 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased colchicine overall exposure by 1.4- to 1.9-fold.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with voxelotor; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and voxelotor with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and for quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may result in increased plasma concentrations of quinidine. Quinidine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Monitor for quinine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase quinine exposure. Quinine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Major) Limit the dose of ranolazine to 500 mg twice daily if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ranolazine. Ranolazine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased plasma levels of ranolazine by 50% to 130%.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and voxelotor due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) A dose reduction of repaglinide and increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Repaglinide is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and efficacy and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. While use is not recommended, if coadministration is necessary, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and rifabutin as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and rifampin as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and rifapentine as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with voxelotor may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and voxelotor due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with voxelotor; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Roflumilast: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in roflumilast-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase roflumilast exposure. Roflumilast is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of roflumilast by 70%.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in saquinavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentrations of saquinavir. Saquinavir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Decrease the sebetralstat dose by 50% if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sebetralstat exposure and the risk for sebetralstat-related adverse effects. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sebetralstat overall exposure by 2-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Seladelpar: (Minor) Monitor patients who are known CYP2C9 poor metabolizers more frequently for an increase in seladelpar-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use in these patients may increase seladelpar exposure. Seladelpar is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib and voxelotor due to the risk of increased selpercatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions, including QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the dose of selpercatinib (160 mg twice daily to 120 mg twice daily; 120 mg twice daily to 80 mg twice daily; 80 mg twice daily to 40 mg twice daily; 40 mg three times daily to 40 mg once daily). Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, such as additional electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase selpercatinib exposure by 1.66-fold to 1.99-fold.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and voxelotor due to the risk of increased selumetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of selumetinib to 20 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 25 mg/m2 twice daily and 15 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 20 mg/m2 twice daily. If voxelotor is discontinued, resume the original selumetinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of voxelotor. Selumetinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase selumetinib exposure by 41%.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sildenafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary; consider a starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil when prescribed for erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of sildenafil by 160% and 182%, respectively. Predictions based on a pharmacokinetic model suggest that drug-drug interactions with CYP3A inhibitors will be less for sildenafil injection than those observed after oral sildenafil administration.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Simvastatin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and voxelotor may increase siponimod exposure. If the patient is also receiving a drug regimen containing a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor, use of siponimod is not recommended due to a significant increase in siponimod exposure. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A dual inhibitor led to a 2-fold increase in the AUC of siponimod.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of voxelotor. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sirolimus overall exposure 1.6-fold.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and voxelotor as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, administer voxelotor for less than 14 days and monitor for an increased risk of sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and sotorasib as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and St. John's Wort as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if voxelotor must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of voxelotor is necessary. If voxelotor is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor like voxelotor can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If voxelotor is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Suvorexant: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with voxelotor. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Suzetrigine: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of voxelotor. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and voxelotor due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of voxelotor with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A inhibition.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tazemetostat with voxelotor due to the risk for increased tazemetostat exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease current tazemetostat daily dosage by 50% (e.g., decrease 800 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO twice daily; 600 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO for first dose and 200 mg PO for second dose; 400 mg PO twice daily to 200 mg PO twice daily). Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased tazemetostat overall exposure by 3.1-fold.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) If voxelotor and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with voxelotor; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased bleeding if ticagrelor is coadministered with voxelotor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ticagrelor. Ticagrelor is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A; voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Tinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tinidazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of tinidazole. Tinidazole is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tipranavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentrations of tipranavir. Tipranavir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tolvaptan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with voxelotor. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of voxelotor, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of voxelotor, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of verapamil with voxelotor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of verapamil. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A; verapamil is a substrate of CYP3A.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tretinoin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tretinoin exposure. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with voxelotor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of voxelotor; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg every other day. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg every other day. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 3.9- and 5.1-fold, respectively. (Moderate) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with voxelotor; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of voxelotor; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg every other day. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg every other day. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 3.9- and 5.1-fold, respectively.
Vardenafil: (Major) Do not use vardenafil orally disintegrating tablets with voxelotor due to increased vardenafil exposure; do not exceed a single dose of 5 mg per 24-hour period of vardenafil oral tablets. Vardenafil is primarily metabolized by CYP3A; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of vardenafil by 4-fold.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with voxelotor due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of voxelotor. Venetoclax is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of verapamil with voxelotor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of verapamil. Voxelotor is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A; verapamil is a substrate of CYP3A.
vinBLAStine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinblastine-related adverse reactions, including myelosuppression, constipation, and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Vinblastine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Enhanced vinblastine toxicity was reported with coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Reduce the voclosporin dosage to 15.8 mg PO in the morning and 7.9 mg PO in the evening if coadministered with voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase voclosporin exposure and the risk of voclosporin-related adverse effects such as nephrotoxicity, hypertension, and QT prolongation. Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase voclosporin exposure by 3-fold.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for increased voriconazole-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor as concurrent use may increase voriconazole exposure. Voriconazole is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased voriconazole exposure by 79%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with voxelotor is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Decrease the zanubrutinib dose to 80 mg PO twice daily if coadministered with voxelotor. Coadministration may result in increased zanubrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Further decrease the zanubrutinib dose as recommended if adverse reactions occur. After discontinuation of voxelotor, resume the previous dose of zanubrutinib. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The AUC of zanubrutinib is predicted to increase by 157% to 317% when coadministered with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and voxelotor due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ziftomenib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
The safety of voxelotor was evaluated in the HOPE trial (n = 179) in which 88 subjects (age range: 12 to 59 years) received voxelotor 1,500 mg PO once daily for a minimum of 24 weeks. Serious adverse reactions occurred in 3% of subjects. Permanent discontinuation due to an adverse reaction (Grade 1 to 4) occurred in 5% of subjects. Dose reduction or dose interruption due to adverse reactions occurred in 14% of subjects. The safety of voxelotor was evaluated in children 4 to 11 years in an open-label, Phase 2 study. The overall safety profile of voxelotor in children 4 to 11 years was similar to that seen in adults and pediatric subjects 12 years and older.
    Headline
    angioedema, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), eosinophilia, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Serious hypersensitivity reactions have occurred in less than 1% of voxelotor-treated subjects. Clinical manifestations may include rash, urticaria, mild shortness of breath, mild facial swelling, and eosinophilia. Discontinue voxelotor and institute appropriate medical treatment if a hypersensitivity reaction occurs. Do not reinitiate treatment. Rash, including urticaria, generalized rash, maculopapular rash, pruritic rash, papular rash, erythematous rash, and vesicular rash, occurred in 15% to 20% of voxelotor-treated subjects during clinical trials. Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in postmarketing experience with voxelotor. Persons who develop a combination of skin rash, fever, peripheral eosinophilia, and internal systemic organ involvement (e.g., hepatic, renal, pulmonary) while receiving voxelotor should undergo medical evaluation. Angioedema (i.e., swelling of the eyelid, face edema, lip swelling, and periorbital swelling) and pruritus have also been reported in postmarketing experience with voxelotor.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      eosinophilia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    pulmonary embolism
    General Information
    Pulmonary embolism occurred in 1 voxelotor-treated patient during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache (18% to 32%) was the most commonly reported adverse reaction in patients receiving voxelotor during clinical trials. Headache was classified as serious in 1 patient.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Vomiting (33%), diarrhea (18% to 23%), abdominal pain (18% to 23%), and nausea (19%) were reported in voxelotor-treated patients during clinical trials. Diarrhea, nausea, and abdominal pain led to dosage modifications (reduction or interruption) in 3.4%, 2.3%, and 1.1% of patients, respectively.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever was reported in 15% of voxelotor-treated patients 12 years and older and 36% of patients 4 to 11 years during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Voxelotor may cause laboratory test interference with measurement of hemoglobin (Hb) subtypes (HbA, HbS, and HbF) by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). If precise quantitation of Hb species is necessary, perform chromatography when the individual has not received voxelotor therapy in the previous 10 days.

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Voxelotor was removed from the market by the manufacturer in September 2024 after clinical data indicates the overall benefit of voxelotor no longer outweighs the risk in the sickle cell patient population. The data shows an imbalance in vaso-occlusive crises and fatal events which require further assessment. Voxelotor was a first-in-class oral hemoglobin S polymerization inhibitor originally indicated for the treatment of sickle cell disease in patients 4 years and older. Accelerated FDA-approval was based on significant and sustained improvements in hemoglobin with voxelotor compared to placebo in the HOPE trial, in which 274 patients (12 years and older) were randomized to daily administration of voxelotor 1,500 mg (n = 90), voxelotor 900 mg (n = 92), or placebo (n = 92). The majority of patients had HbS or HbS/beta0-thalassemia genotype and were receiving background hydroxyurea therapy. In the trial, 51% (95% CI, 41 to 61) of patients receiving voxelotor 1,500 mg/day achieved a more than 1 g/dL increase in hemoglobin after 24 weeks of treatment, compared to 6.5% (95% CI, 1 to 12) of those receiving placebo (p less than 0.001). Reductions in anemia were observed in both voxelotor groups. All measures of hemolysis (indirect bilirubin concentration, percentage of reticulocytes, absolute reticulocyte count, lactate dehydrogenase concentration) showed a response that improved with increasing whole-blood concentrations of voxelotor. The high-dose voxelotor group had significantly greater reductions from baseline in indirect bilirubin concentrations (mean change -29.1% vs. -3.2%) and percentage of reticulocytes (mean change -19.9% vs. +4.5%) compared to the placebo group. Common adverse reactions include headache, diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea, fatigue, rash, and fever.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Voxelotor inhibits hemoglobin S (HbS) polymerization, the central abnormality in sickle cell disease, by binding to HbS, which allosterically modifies hemoglobin and increases the affinity of Hb for oxygen. Consequently, voxelotor improves red blood cell (RBC) deformity, inhibits RBC sickling, and reduces whole blood viscosity.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Median plasma and whole blood Tmax is 2 hours after oral administration. Mean peak concentrations in whole blood and RBC are observed between 6 and 18 hours after administration. The pharmacokinetics of voxelotor are linear. Exposures increase proportionally with single and multiple doses in whole blood, plasma, and RBC. Exposures are consistent with accumulation. In plasma, AUC and Cmax are 278 mcg/mL x hour and 14 mcg/mL, respectively. In whole blood, AUC and Cmax are 3,830 mcg/mL x hour and 180 mcg/mL, respectively. A high-fat, high-calorie meal increases AUC and Cmax by 42% and 45%, respectively, in whole blood and by 42% and 95%, respectively, in plasma. Steady-state after repeated administration is attained within 8 days. Exposures are comparable when administered as a tablet for oral suspension dispersed in water or as an oral tablet swallowed whole.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Voxelotor AUC in whole blood was 14% and 15% higher in subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh A and B) and 90% higher in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh C) compared to those with normal hepatic function.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Renal function does not significantly affect voxelotor excretion. Whole blood exposures in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73m2) were 25% lower compared to healthy subjects. Unbound plasma concentrations were comparable. Voxelotor has not been evaluated in patients with end stage renal disease requiring dialysis.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The pharmacokinetic parameters of voxelotor are similar in pediatric patients 4 to 17 years and adults.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of voxelotor have been observed based on age (12 to 59 years); however, clinical studies did not include sufficient numbers of subjects 65 years and older to determine differences.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of voxelotor have been observed based on sex.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of voxelotor have been observed based on body weight (28 to 135 kg).
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Hemoglobin (Hb) SC Genotype
Voxelotor steady state whole blood AUC and Cmax were 50% and 45% higher in HbSC genotype patients (n = 11) compared to HbSS genotype patients (n = 220). Steady state plasma AUC and Cmax were 23% and 15% higher in HbSC genotype patients compared to HbSS genotype patients.
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Voxelotor is administered orally. It is absorbed into plasma and distributed predominantly into red blood cells (RBCs) due to its preferential binding to hemoglobin. Apparent Vd of the central and peripheral compartment are 333 L and 72.3 L in plasma, respectively. Protein binding is 99.8%. The blood-to-plasma ratio is approximately 17:1 in patients with sickle cell disease. Voxelotor is extensively metabolized via phase I (oxidation and reduction), phase II (glucuronidation), and a combination of phase I and II metabolism. Metabolism is mediated by CYP3A4, CYP3A5, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, UGT1A1, and UGT1A9. Terminal elimination half-life is 38.7 hours with concentrations in plasma, whole blood, and RBCs declining in parallel. Oral clearance is estimated as 6.1 L/hour in plasma. Approximately 62.6% of the dose and its metabolites are excreted into feces (33.3% unchanged) and 35.5% in urine (0.08% unchanged).
 
Voxelotor treatment results in a dose-dependent increase in Hb oxygen affinity that is linearly correlated with drug exposure. Treatment also results in a dose-dependent reduction in clinical measures of hemolysis (e.g., indirect bilirubin and percentage reticulocytes).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drugs transporters: CYP3A4, CYP3A5, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, UGT1A1, and UGT1A9
Voxelotor metabolism is mediated by CYP3A4, CYP3A5, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, UGT1A1, and UGT1A9. In vivo, voxelotor inhibits CYP3A4. Voxelotor is also an inducer and reversible and time-dependent inhibitor of CYP2B6.

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Swallow tablets whole; do not cut, crush, or chew.
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets for Oral Suspension
Do not swallow whole, cut, crush, or chew the tablets for oral suspension.
Disperse tablets for oral suspension immediately before administration in a cup using the minimum volume of room temperature clear liquid (e.g., drinking water, clear soda, apple juice, clear electrolyte drinks, clear flavored drinks, or clear sports drinks) recommended below based on the number of tablets:
For 300 mg (1 tablet), 5 mL (1 teaspoon)
For 600 mg (2 tablets), 10 mL (2 teaspoons)
For 900 mg (3 tablets), 15 mL (3 teaspoons)
For 1,200 mg (4 tablets), 20 mL (4 teaspoons)
For 1,500 mg (5 tablets), 25 mL (5 teaspoons)
For 2,100 mg (7 tablets), 35 mL (7 teaspoons)
For 2,400 mg (8 tablets), 40 mL (8 teaspoons)
Once the tablets start to disintegrate, swirl the contents of the cup until the tablets are dispersed, wait 1 to 5 minutes, swirl the contents of the cup again, and then orally administer. The tablets will not completely dissolve; there will still be small tablet clumps in the mixture.
Resuspend any residue left in the cup in more clear drink and administer. Repeat until no tablet residue is left in the cup.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    For pediatric patients 4 years and older, select the tablets or tablets for oral suspension based on patient's ability to swallow tablets and patient weight. Tablets for oral suspension may be substituted for tablets in adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older with difficulty swallowing.
May administer without regard to meals.
If a dose is missed, or not administered entirely, resume dosing on the day after the missed dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1,500 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1,500 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    1,500 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: 1,500 mg/day PO.
4 to 11 years weighing 40 kg or more: 1,500 mg/day PO.
4 to 11 years weighing 20 to 39 kg: 900 mg/day PO.
4 to 11 years weighing 10 to 19 kg: 600 mg/day PO.
1 to 3 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Patients 12 years and older
Mild to moderate impairment (Child-Pugh Class A to B): No dosage adjustment is necessary.
Severe impairment (Child-Pugh Class C): Reduce dose to 1,000 mg PO once daily.
Patients 4 to 11 years
Mild to moderate impairment (Child-Pugh Class A to B): No dosage adjustment is necessary.
Severe impairment (Child-Pugh Class C):
weighing 10 kg to 19 kg: Reduce dose to 300 mg PO once daily
weighing 20 kg to 39 kg: Reduce dose to 600 mg PO once daily.
weighing 40 kg or more: Reduce dose to 1,000 mg (two 500 mg tablets) or 900 mg (three 300mg tablets for oral suspension) PO once daily.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
