=== Arginine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2318)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Arginine hydrochloride is a synthetic derivative of the essential amino acid L-arginine.

Routes: oral, injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 30 g/dose IV for pituitary growth hormone reserve; doses up to 600 mg/kg/dose for the loading dose and 600 mg/kg/day via continuous IV have been used off-label for urea cycle disorders.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cerebral edema, hyperventilation, metabolic acidosis

In an Overdose: Metabolic acidosis and hyperventilation may occur with an overdosage of arginine injection. In overdosages in pediatric patients, cerebral edema and death have been reported.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use arginine injection cautiously in patients with renal impairment, renal failure, and/or an electrolyte imbalance.

ARGININE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Arginine, Nutricia SHS L-Arginine, R-Gene

Indication Specific Dosing

For growth hormone deficiency diagnosis (i.e., evaluation of pituitary growth hormone reserve)

Intravenous dosage
Adults


30 g IV as a single dose.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


0.5 g/kg/dose (Max: 30 g/dose) IV as a single dose.


Neonates


0.5 g/kg/dose IV as a single dose.


For the treatment of interstitial cystitis†

Oral dosage
Adults


In a small self-controlled study, 1.5 grams PO daily in divided doses for 6 months improved urinary symptoms such as voiding discomfort and urethral and abdominal pain.


For improving exercise capacity in patients with stable angina†

Oral dosage
Adults


In a double-blind study, patients were randomized to receive either 2 g L-arginine PO or placebo 3 times per day for 3 days. Patients who took the active drug had a significant increase in exercise capacity and had no significant adverse effects.


For the adjunctive treatment of acute hyperammonemia† and associated encephalopathy in patients with deficiencies in enzymes of the urea cycle

For patients with carbamyl phosphate synthetase (CPS) or ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency
Intravenous dosage
Adults, Adolescents, and Children > 20 kg


2 mL/kg (provides 200 mg/kg of arginine) IV loading dose through a central line over 90—120 minutes, then give a maintenance dose of 2 mL/kg (provides 200 mg/kg of arginine) IV through a central line over 24 hours. Administer each dose with 55 mL/m2 of sodium benzoate; sodium phenylacetate (provides 5.5 g/m2 of sodium phenylacetate and 5.5 g/m2 of sodium benzoate). Maintenance infusions may be given daily, each over 24 hours, until plasma ammonia concentrations normalize or until the patient can tolerate oral nutrition and medications.


Neonates, Infants, and Children < 20 kg


2 mL/kg (provides 200 mg/kg of arginine) IV loading dose through a central line over 90—120 minutes, then give a maintenance dose of 2 mL/kg (provides 200 mg/kg of arginine) IV through a central line over 24 hours. Administer each dose with 2.5 mL/kg of sodium benzoate; sodium phenylacetate (provides 250 mg/kg of sodium phenylacetate and 250 mg/kg of sodium benzoate). Maintenance infusions may be given daily, each over 24 hours, until plasma ammonia concentrations normalize or until the patient can tolerate oral nutrition and medications.


For patients with argininosuccinate lyase (ASL) or argininosuccinate synthetase (ASS) deficiency
Intravenous dosage
Adults, Adolescents, and Children > 20 kg


6 mL/kg (provides 600 mg/kg of arginine) IV loading dose through a central line over 90—120 minutes, then give a maintenance dose of 6 mL/kg (provides 600 mg/kg of arginine) IV through a central line over 24 hours. Administer each dose with 55 mL/m2 of sodium benzoate; sodium phenylacetate (provides 5.5 g/m2 of sodium phenylacetate and 5.5 g/m2 of sodium benzoate). Maintenance infusions may be given daily, each over 24 hours, until plasma ammonia concentrations normalize or until the patient can tolerate oral nutrition and medications.


Neonates, Infants, and Children < 20 kg


6 mL/kg (provides 600 mg/kg of arginine) IV loading dose through a central line over 90—120 minutes, then give a maintenance dose of 6 mL/kg (provides 600 mg/kg of arginine) IV through a central line over 24 hours. Administer each dose with 2.5 mL/kg of sodium benzoate; sodium phenylacetate (provides 250 mg/kg of sodium phenylacetate and 250 mg/kg of sodium benzoate). Maintenance infusions may be given daily, each over 24 hours, until plasma ammonia concentrations normalize or until the patient can tolerate oral nutrition and medications.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

electrolyte imbalance, renal failure, renal impairment


Use arginine injection cautiously in patients with renal impairment, renal failure, and/or an electrolyte imbalance. Arginine can be metabolized to nitrogen-containing products. Consider the nitrogen or acute amino acid burden on patients with impaired renal function when administering arginine injection. Additionally, arginine injection contains 47.5 mEq chloride/100 mL, which should be considered in patients with an existing electrolyte imbalance.


adolescents, children, infants, neonates


Use extreme caution when administering arginine injection to neonates, infants, children, and adolescents. Ensure the appropriate dose is being administered. After high dose arginine hydrochloride administration in pediatric patients, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis may occur. Monitor chloride and bicarbonate concentrations and administer bicarbonate if needed. In overdosages in pediatric patients, cerebral edema and death have been reported.


pregnancy


There are no adequate or well-controlled studies on the use of injectable arginine during human pregnancy. Animal studies have provided no evidence of harm to the fetus. Animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response; therefore, the FDA-approved labeling recommends that arginine injection not be used during pregnancy. Of note, basal and post-stimulation concentrations of growth hormone are elevated during pregnancy. Arginine dietary supplements have also not been evaluated for use in human pregnancy.


breast-feeding


Use arginine with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known if arginine is secreted in human milk; however, systemically administered amino acids are secreted into human milk in quantities not likely to be harmful to the child. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential drug exposure in the breast-fed child, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate or well-controlled studies on the use of injectable arginine during human pregnancy. Animal studies have provided no evidence of harm to the fetus. Animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response; therefore, the FDA-approved labeling recommends that arginine injection not be used during pregnancy. Of note, basal and post-stimulation concentrations of growth hormone are elevated during pregnancy. Arginine dietary supplements have also not been evaluated for use in human pregnancy.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Arginine products.

Adverse Reaction
anaphylactoid reactions, maculopapular rash


During clinical trials of arginine injection (R-Gene 10), one patient developed a maculopapular rash with reddening and swelling of the hands and face. The rash subsided after the infusion was terminated and 50 mg of diphenhydramine was administered. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions, have been reported during post-market surveillance of arginine injection. If serious hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis occurs during arginine therapy, discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical therapy.


nausea, vomiting


Nausea and vomiting were reported in approximately 3% of patients during clinical trials of arginine injection. Excessive rates of infusion may cause these adverse events; consider decreasing infusion rate if these symptoms develop. When dosing arginine for diagnostic purposes, inadequate dosing or prolongation of the infusion period may diminish the stimulus to the pituitary and nullify the test.


flushing, headache


Flushing and headache were reported in approximately 3% of patients during clinical trials of arginine injection. Excessive rates of infusion may cause flushing; consider decreasing infusion rate if these symptoms develop. When dosing arginine for diagnostic purposes, inadequate dosing or prolongation of the infusion period may diminish the stimulus to the
pituitary and nullify the test.


thrombocytopenia


During clinical trials of arginine injection, thrombocytopenia was reported in one patient (decrease in platelet count from 150,000 to 60,000).


cerebral edema, hyperventilation, metabolic acidosis


Metabolic acidosis and hyperventilation may occur with an overdosage of arginine injection. Ensure the appropriate dose is being administered. In overdosages in pediatric patients, cerebral edema and death have been reported. If needed, monitor chloride and bicarbonate concentrations. In a review of adverse events reported to the FDA's Adverse Event Reporting System (AERS), 33 reports were identified and the majority of cases involved pediatric patients younger than 16 years. The acidosis and base deficit will usually self-compensate and return to normal after cessation of the infusion. If the acidosis persists, however, the deficit should be determined and an appropriate dose of an alkalinizing agent, such as bicarbonate, administered.


hematuria


Hematuria has been reported in post-marketing reports of arginine injection. Some cases occurred 1—2 days after administration of arginine.


injection site reaction, skin necrosis


Extravasation causing a third-degree chemical burn (skin necrosis) requiring surgical intervention was in a 17 year old patient during post-market surveillance of arginine injection. An injection site reaction consisting of local venous irritation occurred in 3% of patients in clinical trials. Excessive rates of infusion may cause injection site reaction or skin irritation; consider decreasing infusion rate if local irritation develops. When dosing arginine for diagnostic purposes, inadequate dosing or prolongation of the infusion period may diminish the stimulus to the pituitary and nullify the test.


lethargy, paresthesias


Paresthesias were reported in approximately 3% of patients during clinical trials of arginine injection. Lethargy has also been reported with arginine administration.l


hypotension


Arginine is a precursor of nitric oxide and accumulation of large amounts of excess arginine could lead to nitric oxide overproduction and result in vasodilation and hypotension. If hypotension is noted, consider reduction in arginine administration.


Description

Arginine hydrochloride is a synthetic derivative of the essential amino acid L-arginine. Arginine hydrochloride may be used as an aid to the detection of growth hormone deficiency in conditions such as panhypopituitarism, pituitary dwarfism, chromophobe adenoma, postsurgical craniopharyngioma, hypophysectomy, pituitary trauma, and in problems with growth and stature. The drug has also been used in the evaluation of pituitary function in gigantism and acromegaly Further, arginine injection is used to treat high ammonia concentrations in patients with urea cycle disorders. Arginine tablets, which are dietary supplements, have been used to improve exercise capacity in patients with stable angina pectoris. Arginine injection was originally approved by the FDA in February 1973.

Mechanism Of Action


Growth Hormone Deficiency Diagnosis: Arginine stimulates pituitary release of growth hormone in patients with normal pituitary function. Patients with impaired pituitary function who receive arginine will have lower or no increase in plasma concentrations of growth hormone after administration of arginine.
Urea Cycle Disorders (UCDs): The urea cycle is normally responsible for maintaining low blood concentrations of ammonia and glutamine from protein breakdown. The normal urea cycle requires numerous enzyme-catalyzed steps to form nitrogenous waste such as urea. Hyperammonemia may occur when there is a deficiency in one or more urea cycle enzymes or a cofactor: N-acetylglutamate synthetase (NAGS), carbamyl phosphate synthetase (CPS), argininosuccinate synthetase (ASS), ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC), or argininosuccinate lyase (ASL). Arginine becomes an essential amino acid when any of these enzymes is deficient. If essential amino acids are not available, protein catabolism occurs, which increases ammonia concentrations. Exogenous arginine is administered in patients with UCDs to restore serum levels and prevent the breakdown of endogenous protein. Additionally, arginine administration lowers the blood ammonia level and increases the amount of nitrogen excreted in the urine by stimulating an alternative pathway for waste nitrogen excretion.
Metabolic Alkalosis: Arginine is a precursor to hydrochloric acid and has a high chloride content and is, therefore, an alternative treatment for severe metabolic alkalosis.
Cardiovascular disease: Arginine is a precursor of nitric oxide, which is a potent vasodilator with antiplatelet activity. Nitric oxide has been shown to induce vasodilation in patients with atherosclerosis.


Pharmacokinetics

Arginine is administered orally and via IV administration. Thirty grams of intravenous arginine increased urinary nitrate and cyclic GMP excretion rates by 97 +/- 28 and 66 +/- 20%, respectively. The onset and duration of vasodilator effect on endogenous nitric oxide production paralleled the plasma half-life of arginine.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

In 2 pharmacokinetic studies of healthy volunteers, the oral bioavailability of L-arginine was 68% after 6 g PO (administered as twelve 500 mg capsules) and 21% after 10 g PO (administered as 100 mL of a 10% solution). The Tmax was 90 minutes after 6 g PO and 60 minutes after 10 g PO. After 10 g PO, renal clearance was not found to a significant contributor; nonrenal clearance was 360 mL/min. In the other study, clearance was 1018 +/- 230 mL/min with a half-life of 79.5 minutes after 6 g PO.

Intravenous Route

Arginine elimination was biphasic, with concentration dependent renal clearance eliciting a rapid initial decrease in serum concentrations, followed by a slower decrease in serum concentrations due to nonrenal elimination. After 30 g IV infusion, about 5 g of arginine was excreted in the urine, with a major portion excreted within 90 minutes after drug administration. Renal clearance in 2 of 12 volunteers within the first 90 minutes after drug administration was 1.16—1.18 mL/kg/minute. In a study of 8 healthy males, after receiving 30 g IV of arginine, clearance was 544 +/- 24 mL/min, and after 6 g IV of arginine, clearance was 894 +/-164 mL/min. Elimination half life was dose dependent and was 41.6 min after 30 g IV and 59.6 min after 6 g IV.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.


Intravenous Administration

For stimulation of the pituitary gland
 
Preparation of intravenous infusion
Adults and Children weighing 60 kg or more
R-Gene 10 is ready to use for patients weighing 60 kg or more; further dilution is not required.
 
Children weighing less than 60 kg
NOTE: The entire 300 mL bottle of R-Gene 10 is not intended for use in patients weighing less than 60 kg. Overdosage in pediatric patients has resulted in hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, cerebral edema, or possibly death.
To avoid inadvertent administration of the total volume of R-Gene 10, withdraw the appropriate weight-based dose (0.5 g/kg) from an intact bottle of R-Gene 10 and transfer the dose to a separate container, such as an evacuated sterile glass container, polypropylene syringe, or plastic containers made of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA).
Solution is stable for 4 hours, including infusion time, at room temperature or for 24 hours refrigerated.
 
Intermittent IV Infusion
Verify the accuracy of the dose prior to administration.
If administering in provided glass container, a standard air-inletting, air-filtering intravenous infusion set with a bacterial air filter is required.
Arginine injection is hypertonic (950 mOsmol/L) and acidic (average pH of 5.6) and contains 47.5 mEq chloride/100 mL solution. Administration may cause venous irritation and damage to tissues. Ensure administration via a patent catheter with a patent antecubital vein or other suitable vein
Infuse over 30 minutes.
 
Test Procedure
The test should be performed in the morning after a normal night's sleep. An overnight fast should continue through the test period.
Place patients at bed rest at least 30 minutes prior to start of the infusion. Minimize apprehension and distress, particularly in children.
Infusion should occur through an indwelling needle or soft catheter placed in a patent antecubital vein or other suitable vein. Blood samples should be taken by venipuncture from the contra-lateral arm.
Schedule blood samples for -30, 0, 30, 60, 90, 120, and 150 minutes, where "0" indicates initiation of R-Gene 10 infusion.
Administer R-Gene 10 over 30 minutes.
Blood samples should be centrifuged promptly and stored at -20 degrees C until assayed by one of the published radioimmunoassay procedures.
If test results indicate a deficiency of pituitary reserve for human growth hormone (HGH), results should be confirmed with either a second test with R-Gene 10 or insulin hypoglycemic test. One day between tests is advised.
 
For the adjunctive treatment of acute hyperammonemia in urea cycle disorders
 
Preparation
Arginine is administered with sodium benzoate and sodium phenylacetate. Prepare the sodium benzoate; sodium phenylacetate dose in 25 to 35 mL/kg of 10% Dextrose Injection. The solution can be prepared in glass or PVC containers.
Mix the calculated dose of arginine 10% injection in the same container.
The solution is stable for 24 hours at room temperature.
 
IV Infusion
Administer via a central line.
Loading dose: Infuse IV over 90 to 120 minutes.
Maintenance dose: Infuse continuously over 24 hours.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

30 g/dose IV for pituitary growth hormone reserve; doses up to 600 mg/kg/dose for the loading dose and 600 mg/kg/day via continuous IV have been used off-label for urea cycle disorders.

Geriatric

30 g/dose IV for pituitary growth hormone reserve; doses up to 600 mg/kg/dose for the loading dose and 600 mg/kg/day via continuous IV have been used off-label for urea cycle disorders.

Adolescents

60 kg or more: 30 g/dose IV for pituitary growth hormone reserve; doses up to 600 mg/kg/dose for the loading dose and 600 mg/kg/day via continuous IV have been used off-label for urea cycle disorders.
less than 60 kg: 0.5 g/kg/dose IV for pituitary growth hormone reserve; doses up to 600 mg/kg/dose for the loading dose and 600 mg/kg/day via continuous IV have been used off-label for urea cycle disorders.

Children

60 kg or more: 30 g/dose IV for pituitary growth hormone reserve; doses up to 600 mg/kg/dose for the loading dose and 600 mg/kg/day via continuous IV have been used off-label for urea cycle disorders.
less than 60 kg: 0.5 g/kg/dose IV for pituitary growth hormone reserve; doses up to 600 mg/kg/dose for the loading dose and 600 mg/kg/day via continuous IV have been used off-label for urea cycle disorders.

Infants

0.5 g/kg/dose IV for pituitary growth hormone reserve; doses up to 600 mg/kg/dose for the loading dose and 600 mg/kg/day via continuous IV have been used off-label for urea cycle disorders.

Neonates

0.5 g/kg/dose IV for pituitary growth hormone reserve; doses up to 600 mg/kg/dose for the loading dose and 600 mg/kg/day via continuous IV have been used off-label for urea cycle disorders.

Dosage Forms

Arginine 1,000mg Oral tablet

Arginine 1,000mg, Calcium 120mg Oral capsule

Arginine 500mg Oral capsule

Arginine 500mg Oral tablet

Arginine Bulk powder

Arginine EASY Tablet

Arginine Hydrochloride Bulk powder

Premier Value L-Arginine 500mg Capsule

R-Gene 10 Solution for Injection

Radiance L-Arginine 500mg Capsule

RITE AID L-Arginine 1000mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier