=== Rotavirus Vaccine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2141)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Rotavirus vaccine is a live virus vaccine administered orally for immunization against rotavirus gastroenteritis, the most common cause of severe gastroenteritis in infants and children.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, purpura, urticaria, bronchospasm, cough, pharyngitis, rhinorrhea

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Rotavirus vaccine should not be used in patients who have a suspected history of hypersensitivity to any component of the vaccine. Health care professionals should determine prior vaccine history and current health status before administration of rotavirus vaccine.

Brand Names
  - Rotarix
  - RotaTeq

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General Dosing Information
There is no preference for the use of RV1 (Rotarix) or RV5 (RotaTeq) for rotavirus prophylaxis.
No data are available on the degree of protection against rotavirus disease provided if the full series is not received.
Infants who have had rotavirus gastroenteritis before receiving the full course of rotavirus vaccinations should still initiate or complete the series because the initial infection frequently provides only partial immunity. No data are available on post-exposure prophylaxis with rotavirus vaccine.
It is recommended that the same brand of rotavirus vaccine be given for the entire immunization series since no safety and efficacy data regarding interchangeability are available. Do not defer completion of the immunization series if a previous product given is not available or unknown; continue to complete the series with available product. If the previous vaccine product is unknown or if any known dose in the previous series was RV5 (RotaTeq), a total of 3 doses should be administered.
If a first dose of the vaccine is inadvertently given at 15 weeks of age or older, the series may be completed before age 8 months, 0 days.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (RotaTeq)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Infants 6 to 32 weeks
        Dosage Description
        2 mL PO for 3 doses with an interval of at least 4 weeks between doses, ideally given at 2, 4, and 6 months. The first dose may be given between 6 weeks and 14 weeks, 6 days. FDA-approved product labeling recommends initiating the series by 12 weeks of age. The maximum age for the final dose is 8 months, 0 days. Clinically stable premature infants may be vaccinated according to chronological age using the same schedule as long as the vaccine is administered at the time of discharge or after discharge from the neonatal intensive care unit or nursery.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (Rotarix)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Infants 25 to 32 weeks†
        Dosage Description
        1.5 mL PO for last dose in series with an interval of at least 4 weeks between doses. Do not initiate series in infants older than 14 weeks, 6 days. The maximum age recommended for final dose administration is 8 months, 0 days. FDA-approved product labeling recommends completion by 24 weeks.
        Heading
        Infants 6 to 24 weeks
        Dosage Description
        1.5 mL PO for 2 doses with an interval of at least 4 weeks between doses, ideally given at 2 and 4 months. The first dose may be given as young as 6 weeks; the maximum age for administration of the first dose in the series is 14 weeks, 6 days. The maximum age for final dose administration is 8 months. FDA-approved product labeling recommends completion by 24 weeks. Clinically stable premature infants may be vaccinated according to chronological age using the same schedule as long as the vaccine is administered at the time of discharge or after discharge from the neonatal intensive care unit or nursery.
    Heading
    For rotavirus infection prophylaxis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Rotavirus vaccine should not be used in patients who have a suspected history of hypersensitivity to any component of the vaccine. Health care professionals should determine prior vaccine history and current health status before administration of rotavirus vaccine. Patients with latex hypersensitivity may be inappropriate candidates for Rotarix. The tip cap and the rubber plunger of the oral applicator contain dry natural latex rubber. The supplied diluent is contained within the oral applicator, and the supplied diluent must be used to reconstitute Rotarix (see Administration). The vial stopper and transfer adapter are latex-free.
 
The rotavirus vaccine should never be administered by parenteral administration; it is for oral use only.
 
Safety and efficacy of Rotateq have not been established in neonates and infants less than 6 weeks or greater than 32 weeks of age. The safety and effectiveness of Rotarix in infants younger than 6 weeks or older than 24 weeks of age have not been evaluated. The use of Rotateq in premature infants was studied in the REST trial (see Adverse Events). Doses were given according to their age in weeks since birth. The effectiveness of Rotarix in premature infants has not been established, but safety data are available in premature infants with a reported gestational age of 36 weeks or less. Serious adverse events were observed in 5.2% of 134 Rotarix recipients and in 5% of 120 placebo recipients. No deaths or cases of intussusception were reported; the infants were observed for 30—90 days after the second dose. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) supports vaccination of premature infants according to the same schedule and precautions as full-term infants (see Dosage) under the following conditions: the infant’s chronological age meets the age requirements, the infant is clinically stable, and the vaccine is administered at the time of discharge or after discharge from the neonatal intensive care unit or nursery. The ACIP also recommends cautious use of rotavirus vaccine in infants with known immunodeficiencies as safety and efficacy data are not available. Healthcare providers should consider the risks and benefits of administering rotavirus vaccine to immunocompromised infants; consultation with an immunologist or infectious diseases specialist is advised (see altered immunocompetence discussion).
 
Febrile illness may be reason for delaying use of RotaTeq except when, in the opinion of the physician, withholding the vaccine entails a greater risk. Low-grade fever ( 10 kg when administered for < 2 weeks); long-term, alternate-day treatment with short-acting preparations; maintenance physiologic doses (replacement therapy); administered topically (skin, eyes), inhaled, or by local injection. Healthcare providers should wait at least 1 month after discontinuation of high dose corticosteroid therapy given for more than 2 weeks before administering a live-virus vaccine. Blood products, including antibody containing products, are not considered contraindications for the rotavirus vaccine. Rotavirus vaccine may be administered to eligible infants before, concurrent with, or after administration of any blood product. Immunosuppressed individuals coming into contact with persons who have had the vaccine in the past 2—4 weeks could contract rotaviral illness. In RotaTeq clinical trials, rotavirus vaccine was shed in the stools within 4—6 days of 8.9% of infants tested after dose one, 0% of infants after dose two, and 0.3% of infants after dose three. Because of the theoretical risk of live virus vaccine transmittance to non-vaccinated persons, caution is advised when considering rotavirus vaccination of an infant who is in close contact with an immunocompromised person (see Pharmacokinetics). The potential risk of vaccine virus transmission needs to be weighed against the risk of acquiring and transmitting natural rotavirus; consultation with an immunologist or infectious diseases specialist is advised.
 
Rotavirus vaccine is a FDA pregnancy risk category C drug. Studies in animals or humans have not been conducted. The rotavirus vaccine is not indicated for use in adults. The administration of live virus vaccines carries the potential risk of transmission of illness to the fetus. It is unknown if rotavirus vaccine can cause fetal harm or affect reproductive capacity. In addition, the risk of an adult in the United States contracting severe rotaviral illness is extremely rare. Susceptibility and exposure are not probable, and the threat of contracting the disease does not pose a great risk to the average adult. Additionally, rotavirus vaccine has not been evaluated for its carcinogenic or mutagenic potential or its potential to impair fertility.
 
Rotavirus antibodies from natural infection may be excreted into breast milk. There is no evidence based on clinical trials that the efficacy of the rotavirus vaccine is reduced in breast-feeding infants. This may require further study, as other live virus vaccines have been neutralized by the presence of antibodies in breast milk, thus blunting the immune response. The manufacturer states that rotavirus vaccine can be given to infants who are breast-fed totally or partially. At this time, any type of feeding can be performed directly before or after vaccine administration. Breast-feeding was allowed during all Phase III clinical trials with rotavirus vaccine. It is unknown whether passive immunity would be obtained in an infant if the vaccine were administered to the breast-feeding mother. Vaccination of a breast-feeding woman is not recommended at this time.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Rotarix tip cap and plunger stopper are not made with natural rubber latex.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Rotavirus vaccine may be administered to eligible infants before, concurrent with, or after administration of any blood product.
    Headline
    diarrhea, fever, gastroenteritis, vomiting
    General Information
    The rotavirus vaccine may be delayed for febrile illness unless the health care provider determines the benefits outweigh the risks. Mild illness, including low-grade fever (less than 100.5 degrees F or 38.1 degree C) or mild upper respiratory infection, is not a contraindication. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) advises delaying vaccination in cases of moderate-to-severe illness or acute gastroenteritis until recovery, but infants with mild gastroenteritis can be vaccinated, especially if delay risks missing the vaccination window. Delay vaccination in infants with acute gastrointestinal illness, such as diarrhea or vomiting. Acute gastroenteritis may reduce the vaccine's effectiveness. Vaccine safety and effectiveness has not been evaluated in infants with chronic gastrointestinal disorders. Infants who had rotavirus gastroenteritis prior to completing the vaccine series are advised to still initiate or complete the schedule, as natural infection often provides only partial immunity.
    Headline
    intussusception, Meckel diverticulum
    General Information
    The rotavirus vaccines are contraindicated for use by infants with a history of intussusception. In 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, rotavirus vaccination did not increase the risk of intussusception compared to placebo. However, intussusception has been temporally associated with rotavirus vaccine during postmarketing experience with some cases resulting in death. Postmarketing surveillance in the US found a slight increase (about 1 to 1.5 excess classes per 100,000) of intussusception within 21 days after the first rotavirus dose, especially in the first 7 days. Worldwide passive postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of intussusception occurring shortly after rotavirus administration. Rotavirus vaccine (Rotarix) is also contraindicated for use by individuals with GI disease who have a history of uncorrected congenital malformation of the gastrointestinal tract such as Meckel diverticulum that would predispose the infant for intussusception. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) advises that infants with chronic GI conditions, not on immunosuppressive therapy, should receive rotavirus vaccination, as the benefits outweigh theoretical risks. However, the safety and efficacy of rotavirus vaccine have not been established for infants with preexisting conditions such as congenital malabsorption syndrome; Hirschsprung's disease; short-gut syndrome; persistent vomiting of unknown cause; chronic diarrhea; failure to thrive; a history of congenital abdominal disorders; or abdominal surgery.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    No human or animal data are available to assess rotavirus vaccine-associated risks in pregnancy. The rotavirus vaccine is not indicated for use in people of reproductive potential.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    No human or animal data are available to assess the impact of rotavirus vaccine on milk production, its presence in human milk, or its effect on the breast-fed child. The rotavirus vaccine is not indicated for use in people capable of lactation and breast-feeding.
    Headline
    immunosuppression, severe combined immunodeficiency
    General Information
    The rotavirus vaccines are contraindicated for use by individuals with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). Reports of gastroenteritis, including severe diarrhea and prolonged shedding of vaccine virus, have been reported postmarketing in infants who were vaccinated and later identified as having SCID. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends withholding rotavirus vaccination in most individuals with immunosuppression due to the risk of severe or prolonged gastroenteritis and a potentially reduced immune response. Potentially immunocompromised individuals include those with blood disorders, cancers like leukemia or lymphoma, other malignant neoplasms affecting the bone marrow or lymphatic system, those receiving chemotherapy, radiation, or on immunosuppresive therapy (including high-dose systemic corticosteroids), individuals with cellular or antibody immune deficiencies, and those with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). In support of vaccinating HIV-exposed or infected infants, the ACIP suggests healthcare providers consider that the vaccine undergoes considerable attenuation and that the diagnosis of HIV might not be established before the first scheduled dose of rotavirus vaccine. Healthcare providers are advised to wait at least 1 month after discontinuation of high dose corticosteroid therapy given for more than 2 weeks before administering rotavirus vaccine. Blood products, including antibody containing products, are not considered contraindications for the rotavirus vaccine. Rotavirus vaccine may be administered to eligible infants before, concurrent with, or after administration of any blood product. Individuals with leukemia, lymphoma, or other neoplastic disease whose disease is in remission, who have restored immunocompetence, and whose chemotherapy has been discontinued for at least 3 months can receive live-virus vaccines.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    No human or animal data are available to assess rotavirus vaccine-associated risks in pregnancy. The rotavirus vaccine is not indicated for use in people of reproductive potential.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    No human or animal data are available to assess the impact of rotavirus vaccine on milk production, its presence in human milk, or its effect on the breast-fed child. The rotavirus vaccine is not indicated for use in people capable of lactation and breast-feeding.

Interactions
Abatacept: (Contraindicated) If possible, administer all needed vaccines before abatacept initiation. Live vaccines should not be given concurrently with abatacept or within 3 months of its discontinuation. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased and adjusted doses or boosters that are more frequent may be required. The immune response to an inactive vaccine may still be suboptimal. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Adalimumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to adalimumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving adalimumab. Before initiation of adalimumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Adalimumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Alemtuzumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to alemtuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving alemtuzumab. At least 6 weeks before initiation of alemtuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Alemtuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Alkylating agents: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Alpha interferons: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Anakinra: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with anakinra due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during anakinra treatment has not been established. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, as they may induce the illness they are intended to prevent. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving anakinra. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of anakinra therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Anifrolumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Antimetabolites: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Antithymocyte Globulin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Atacicept: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as atacicept, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Axicabtagene Ciloleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
azaTHIOprine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Baricitinib: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines to patients taking baricitinib, as no data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines. Also, no data are available on the response to vaccination with any vaccine during baricitinib receipt. Before baricitinib initiation, review the vaccination status of patients, and update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines.
Basiliximab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to basiliximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving basiliximab. At least 2 weeks before initiation of basiliximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Basiliximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Belatacept: (Contraindicated) Avoid the use of live vaccines such as the intranasal influenza vaccine; measles/mumps/rubella vaccines, MMR; Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Live, BCG; yellow fever vaccine; oral polio vaccine; varicella virus vaccine live; and TY21a typhoid vaccine during belatacept treatment. Further, inactive vaccine receipt may not illicit an acceptable response; belatacept may blunt the effectiveness of some immunizations. Consult the most current CDC guidances for vaccination recommendations.
Belimumab: (Major) Live vaccines should not be given for 30 days before or concurrently with belimumab, as clinical safety has not been established. Because of its mechanism of action, belimumab may interfere with the response to immunizations. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Betamethasone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Bexarotene: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Bimekizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Blinatumomab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to blinatumomab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving blinatumomab. At least 2 weeks before initiation of blinatumomab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Blinatumomab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Botulism Immune Globulin, BIG-IV: (Major) Vaccination with live vaccines should be deferred until 6 months after administration of botulism immune globulin as antibodies present in immune globulin preparations may interfere with the immune response to live virus vaccines. This interval may be shortened if exposure to measles is likely. If such vaccinations were given shortly before or after botulism immune globulin administration, revaccination may be necessary.
Brensocatib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as brensocatib, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Brexucabtagene Autoleucel : (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during brexucabtagene autoleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with brexucabtagene autoleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Brodalumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to brodalumab recipients. Before initiation of brodalumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving brodalumab therapy.
Budesonide: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Busulfan: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Canakinumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving canakinumab; other vaccination schedules should be complete as recommended prior to initiating canakinumab treatment. No data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines, and the efficacy and safety of live vaccines have not been established in patients receiving canakinumab. The immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased, as canakinumab may interfere with normal immune response to new antigens. Limited data are available on the effectiveness of vaccination with inactivated antigens in patients receiving canakinumab. Because interleukin-1 blockade may interfere with immune response to infections, it is recommended that prior to initiation of therapy with canakinumab, adult and pediatric patients receive any recommended vaccination (including pneumococcal vaccine and inactivated influenza vaccines).
Carmustine, BCNU: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Certolizumab pegol: (Contraindicated) Avoid use of live vaccines during or immediately prior to initiation of therapy with certolizumab. Update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines prior to initiating certolizumab therapy. If immunization is necessary, refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Chlorambucil: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ciltacabtagene Autoleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during ciltacabtagene autoleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with ciltacabtagene autoleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
CISplatin: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to cisplatin recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving cisplatin. At least 2 weeks before initiation of cisplatin therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Cisplatin recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Cladribine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Clofarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Corticosteroids (systemic): (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Cortisone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
cycloSPORINE: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Cytarabine, ARA-C: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to cytarabine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving cytarabine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of cytarabine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Cytarabine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Cytomegalovirus Immune Globulin, CMV-IGIV: (Major) Defer vaccination with live virus vaccines such as Rotavirus Vaccine until approximately 3 months after Cytomegalovirus immune globulin administration. Inform the immunizing physician of recent therapy with the immune globulin so that appropriate measures can be taken. The efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines such as Rotavirus Vaccine may be impaired by Cytomegalovirus immune globulin administration; revaccination may be necessary. The passive transfer of antibodies from the immune globulin may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines.
Dacarbazine, DTIC: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Deflazacort: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Deucravacitinib: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to deucravacitinib recipients. Before initiation of deucravacitinib therapy, consider completion of all age-appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving deucravacitinib therapy.
Deuruxolitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as deuruxolitinib, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
dexAMETHasone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
DOCEtaxel: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to docetaxel recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving docetaxel. At least 2 weeks before initiation of docetaxel therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Docetaxel recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Dupilumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to dupilumab recipients. Before initiation of dupilumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving dupilumab therapy.
Efgartigimod Alfa: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Emapalumab: (Major) Do not administer live or live attenuated vaccines to patients receiving emapalumab and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose of emapalumab. The safety of immunization with live vaccines during or after emapalumab therapy has not been studied.
Estramustine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Etanercept: (Contraindicated) Etanercept has not been found to act as a general immunosuppressant; however, the patient's underlying disease state may result in the immunosuppression. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Etrasimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Everolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to everolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving everolimus. Before initiation of everolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Everolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Fingolimod: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving fingolimod or has discontinued the drug in the last 2 months because of the risk of infection. No data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines, and the efficacy and safety of live vaccines have not been established in patients receiving fingolimod. Before fingolimod initiation, test patients without a history of chickenpox or without vaccination against varicella zoster virus (VZV) for antibodies to VZV. Consider VZV vaccination of antibody-negative patients before fingolimod initiation, and do not start fingolimod for 1 month to allow the full effect of vaccination to occur. In addition to the concerns with live virus vaccines, the immune response to inactive vaccines or toxoids may be decreased, as fingolimod may interfere with normal immune response to new antigens. No data are available on the effectiveness of vaccination with inactivated antigens in patients receiving fingolimod. Vaccination may be less effective during and for up to 2 months after fingolimod discontinuation. For example, as compared with the response of placebo recipients, the capacity to mount a skin delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction to Candida and to tetanus toxoid was decreased by approximately 30% among fingolimod 0.5 mg daily recipients. Further, in healthy patients, antigen-specific IgM titers were decreased by 25% in response to pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV-23) immunization as compared with the response by placebo recipients. Similarly, IgG titers were decreased by 50% among fingolimod recipients as compared with placebo.
Floxuridine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to floxuridine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving floxuridine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of floxuridine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Floxuridine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Fludarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Fluorouracil, 5-FU: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to fluorouracil recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving fluorouracil. At least 2 weeks before initiation of fluorouracil therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Fluorouracil recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Folate analogs: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Golimumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to golimumab recipients. Limited data are available on the response to live vaccination or on the risk of infection or infection transmission after the administration. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Guselkumab: (Major) Avoid use of live vaccines in patients being treated with guselkumab; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving guselkumab. In addition, guselkumab may decrease the vaccine-induced immune response. Before initiation of guselkumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines.
Hepatitis B Immune Globulin, HBIG: (Major) Defer vaccination with live virus vaccines such as Rotavirus Vaccine until approximately 3 months after Hepatitis B immune globulin administration. Inform the immunizing physician of recent therapy with the immune globulin so that appropriate measures can be taken. The efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines such as Rotavirus Vaccine may be impaired by Hepatitis B immune globulin administration; revaccination may be necessary. The passive transfer of antibodies from the immune globulin may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Major) Efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines such as Rotavirus may be impaired by immune globulin administration; revaccination may be necessary. As the passive transfer of antibodies may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines, defer vaccination with live virus vaccines until approximately 3 months after immune globulin administration. Inform the immunizing physician of recent therapy with immune globulin so that appropriate measures can be taken.
Hydrocortisone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Hydroxyurea: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Icotrokinra: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as icotrokinra, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Idecabtagene Vicleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during idecabtagene vicleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with idecabtagene vicleucell. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Ifosfamide: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to ifosfamide recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving ifosfamide. Before initiation of ifosfamide therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Ifosfamide recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Imatinib: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Major) Efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines such as Rotavirus may be impaired by immune globulin administration; revaccination may be necessary. As the passive transfer of antibodies may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines, defer vaccination with live virus vaccines until approximately 3 months after immune globulin administration. Inform the immunizing physician of recent therapy with immune globulin so that appropriate measures can be taken.
Inebilizumab: (Major) Administer all immunizations according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of inebilizumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment and until B-cell repletion. In a neonate or infant with in utero exposure to inebilizumab, do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines before confirming recovery of B-cell counts in the infant. Depletion of B-cells in the exposed infant may increase the risks from live or live-attenuated vaccines.
inFLIXimab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to infliximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving infliximab. Before initiation of infliximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Infliximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Interferon Gamma-1b: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of interferon gamma-1b with other immunological preparations such as live vaccines due to the risk of an unpredictable or amplified, immune response.
Ixabepilone: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ixekizumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to ixekizumab recipients. Before initiation of ixekizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving Ixekizumab therapy.
Lebrikizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Leflunomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Lenalidomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Leniolisib: (Moderate) Patients receiving leniolisib may have a diminished response to live vaccines. Counsel patients receiving leniolisib about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Lisocabtagene Maraleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during lisocabtagene maraleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with lisocabtagene maraleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Lomustine, CCNU: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Melphalan Flufenamide: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in patients who are receiving melphalan. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period or altered immunocompetence.
Melphalan: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in patients who are receiving melphalan. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period or altered immunocompetence.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Methotrexate: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
methylPREDNISolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
mitoXANTRONE: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to mitoxantrone recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving mitoxantrone. At least 2 weeks before initiation of mitoxantrone therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Mitoxantrone recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Mycophenolate: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to mycophenolate recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving mycophenolate. At least 2 weeks before initiation of mycophenolate therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Mycophenolate recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to sirolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving sirolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of sirolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Sirolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Natalizumab: (Contraindicated) The immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased in patients who receive natalizumab; however, no data are available. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Nelarabine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Nilotinib: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Nipocalimab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Obinutuzumab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to obinutuzumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving obinutuzumab. Before initiation of obinutuzumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Obinutuzumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Ocrelizumab: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during ocrelizumab use, vaccination with live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines is not recommended in patients taking ocrelizumab. Withhold vaccination with live or live-attenuated virus vaccines to patients during ocrelizumab treatment and until B-cell repletion. Administer all live or live-attenuated vaccinations according to current vaccination guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ocrelizumab. Do not administer live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants born to mothers exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy before confirming B-cell count recovery as measured by CD19+ B-cells. ACIP recommends that patients receiving any vaccination during immunosuppressive therapy or in the 2 weeks prior to starting therapy should be considered unimmunized and should be revaccinated a minimum of 3 months after discontinuation of therapy. Passive immunoprophylaxis with immune globulins may be indicated for immunocompromised persons instead of, or in addition to, vaccination.
Ofatumumab: (Major) Administer all live and live-attenuated vaccines according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of ofatumumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment with ofatumumab; wait until B-cell recovery occurs after discontinuation of ofatumumab before administering these vaccines to a patient.
Ozanimod: (Major) Avoid the use of live vaccines and live attenuated vaccines during ozanimod treatment and for up to 3 months after discontinuation of ozanimod treatment. Live vaccinations may be less effective during ozanimod treatment and also may carry the risk of infection.
PACLitaxel: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to paclitaxel recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving paclitaxel. At least 2 weeks before initiation of paclitaxel therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Paclitaxel recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
PEMEtrexed: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Pentostatin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Ponesimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid vaccines containing live virus (live attenuated vaccines) during treatment with ponesimod. If a live attenuated vaccine is required, administer at least 1 month (4 weeks) before initiation of ponesimod. The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod. During treatment, and for up to 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of ponesimod, vaccinations may also be less effective.
PRALAtrexate: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
prednisoLONE: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
predniSONE: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Procarbazine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Purine analogs: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Rabies Immune Globulin, human RIG: (Major) Defer immunization with rotavirus pentavalent live vaccine for 4 months after rabies immune globulin, human RIG administration. Antibodies in RIG may interfere with the immune response to the live virus vaccine. According to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, if the rotavirus pentavalent live vaccine is administered less than 4 months after receipt of RIG, the vaccine dose should be repeated unless serologic testing is feasible and indicates a response to the vaccine. The repeat dose and serologic tests must be performed 4 months or more after RIG administration.
Remibrutinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Rh0 [D] Immune Globulin: (Major) Defer vaccination with live virus vaccines such as Rotavirus Vaccine until approximately 3 months after Rh0 [D] immune globulin administration. Inform the immunizing physician of recent therapy with Rh0 [D] immune globulin so that appropriate measures can be taken. The efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines such as Rotavirus Vaccine may be impaired by Rh0 [D] immune globulin administration; revaccination may be necessary. The passive transfer of antibodies from the immune globulin may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccine.
Rilonacept: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to a patient who is receiving rilonacept. No data are available regarding the use of live vaccines during rilonacept treatment. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Risankizumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to risankizumab recipients. Before initiation of risankizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving risankizumab therapy.
Ritlecitinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid administering live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
riTUXimab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to rituximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving rituximab. At least 4 weeks before initiation of rituximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Rituximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to rituximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving rituximab. At least 4 weeks before initiation of rituximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Rituximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Rozanolixizumab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive medications, such as neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) blockers, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Sarilumab: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with sarilumab due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during sarilumab treatment has not been established. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving sarilumab. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of sarilumab therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Satralizumab: (Major) Administer all live vaccines according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks before initiation of satralizumab. Vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment with satralizumab.
Secukinumab: (Major) Do not administer live vaccines to secukinumab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving secukinumab. Before initiation of secukinumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Secukinumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased. Similar antibody responses were seen when healthy individuals who received a single 150 mg dose of secukinumab 2 weeks before vaccination with a non-US approved group C meningococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine and a non-US approved inactivated seasonal influenza vaccine. The efficacy of meningococcal and influenza vaccines has not been evaluated in patients undergoing treatment with secukinumab.
Sibeprenlimab: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines within 30 days prior to initiation of sibeprenlimab or during treatment as safety has not been established. Sibeprenlimab may interfere with immune responses to vaccines and increase the risk of infection from live vaccines.
Siltuximab: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to siltuximab recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving siltuximab. Before initiation of siltuximab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Siltuximab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid the use of live vaccines during treatment with siponomid and for 4 weeks after stopping treatment due to the risk of secondary infection. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during siponimod treatment and for 4 weeks after siponimod treatment discontinuation.
Sirolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to sirolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving sirolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of sirolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Sirolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Spesolimab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines during and for at least 16 weeks after spesolimab treatment. Before initiation of spesolimab therapy, consider completion of all age-appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving spesolimab therapy.
Streptozocin: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Tacrolimus: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to tacrolimus recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving tacrolimus. At least 2 weeks before initiation of tacrolimus therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Tacrolimus recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Temozolomide: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Temsirolimus: (Contraindicated) The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with temsirolimus. Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Due to the lack of clinical information related to the safety and efficacy of vaccine administration during teriflunomide use, concomitant vaccination with live vaccines is not recommended. The long half-life of teriflunomide should be considered when contemplating administration of a live vaccine after stopping the medication if the teriflunomide drug elimination procedure has not been performed.
Tetanus Immune Globulin, Human, TIG: (Major) Defer vaccination with live virus vaccines such as Rotavirus Vaccine until approximately 3 months after Tetanus immune globulin administration. Inform the immunizing physician of recent therapy with the immune globulin so that appropriate measures can be taken. The efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines such as Rotavirus Vaccine may be impaired by Tetanus immune globulin administration; revaccination may be necessary. The passive transfer of antibodies from the immune globulin may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines.
Tezepelumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tezepelumab recipients. Before initiation of tezepelumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available regarding the response to live vaccines in patients receiving tezepelumab therapy.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Thiotepa: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Tildrakizumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tildrakizumab recipients. Before initiation of tildrakizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines in patients receiving tildrakizumab therapy.
Tisagenlecleucel: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during tisagenlecleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with tisagenlecleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Tocilizumab: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of live vaccines during treatment with tocilizumab due to potentially increased risk of infections; clinical safety of live vaccines during tocilizumab treatment has not been established. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving tocilizumab. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of tocilizumab therapy should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents.
Tofacitinib: (Major) Do not administer live virus vaccines to patients taking tofacitinib, as no data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines. Also, no data are available on the response to vaccination with any vaccine during tofacitinib receipt. Before tofacitinib initiation, review the vaccination status of patients, and update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines.
Tralokinumab: (Major) Avoid administration of live vaccines to tralokinumab recipients. Before initiation of tralokinumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. No data are available on the response to live vaccines in patients receiving tralokinumab therapy.
Triamcinolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Ublituximab: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Upadacitinib: (Major) Avoid use of live vaccines during or immediately prior to upadacitinib therapy initiation. Before initiating upadacitinib, it is recommended that patients be brought up to date with all immunizations, including varicella zoster or prophylactic herpes zoster vaccinations, in agreement with current vaccination guidelines.
Ustekinumab: (Contraindicated) If possible, administer all recommended vaccines before ustekinumab initiation. Ustekinumab recipients may receive inactive vaccines, but the elicited immune response may be insufficient to prevent disease. Do not administer live vaccines to a ustekinumab recipient. Furthermore, do not administer BCG live vaccines for either 1 year before or 1 year after ustekinumab receipt, due to the infectious risk for Mycobacteria. No data are available on the response to live vaccination or on the risk of infection or infection transmission after the administration of other live vaccines to ustekinumab recipients. Cautious administration of ustekinumab to household contacts of ustekinumab recipients may be warranted due to the potential risk for shedding from the household contact and transmission to the patient. Practitioners should also refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Vaccinia Immune Globulin, VIG: (Major) Defer vaccination with live attenuated virus vaccines until approximately 3 months after administration of vaccinia immune globulin (VIG). Inform the immunizing physician of recent therapy with the immune globulin so that appropriate measures can be taken. The efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines may be impaired by vaccinia immune globulin (VIG) administration; revaccination may be necessary. The passive transfer of antibodies from the immune globulin may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines.
Vamorolone: (Contraindicated) Avoid the administration of live virus vaccines with high-dose corticosteroid therapy and for at least 1 month following treatment. High-dose corticosteroid therapy is generally defined as a dose of at least 20 mg/day of prednisone or equivalent (or 2 mg/kg/day for patients weighing less than 10 kg) for at least 14 consecutive days. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned high-dose corticosteroid therapy or wait at least 1 month after discontinuation. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccine efficacy may be diminished in patients receiving any supraphysiologic dose of corticosteroid.
Varicella-Zoster Immune Globulin: (Major) Defer vaccination with live virus vaccines until approximately 3 months after Varicella Zoster immune globulin administration. Inform the immunizing physician of recent therapy with varicella-zoster immune globulin, so that appropriate measures can be taken. The efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines such as Rotavirus Vaccine may be impaired by Varicella Zoster immune globulin administration; revaccination may be necessary. The passive transfer of antibodies from the immune globulin may impair the efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines.
Vedolizumab: (Major) Avoid administering live vaccines to vedolizumab recipients unless the benefits outweigh the risks; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vedolizumab. Before initiation of vedolizumab therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vedolizumab recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid live vaccines to venetoclax recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving venetoclax. Before initiation of venetoclax therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Venetoclax recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
vinCRIStine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Vinorelbine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vinorelbine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vinorelbine. Before initiation of vinorelbine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vinorelbine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Voclosporin: (Major) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: Prior to administration of rotavirus vaccine, health care personnel should inform the parent, guardian, or responsible adult of the benefits and risks to the patient. This should include the provision of the rotavirus vaccine information statement and patient information from the manufacturer. The responsible adult should report any adverse reaction after vaccine administration to the health care provider. The US Department of Health and Human Services has established a Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) to accept all reports of suspected adverse events after the administration of any vaccine. This includes, but is not limited to, the reporting of events required by the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986. The toll-free number for VAERS is 800—822—7967.Among 36,150 infants who received RotaTeq® in the phase 3 clinical trial, 5 cases of Kawasaki disease were noted. In contrast, 1 case was reported among 35,536 infants who received placebo. Three additional reports of Kawasaki disease have been noted through routine monitoring of the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), and 1 unconfirmed case among 65,000 doses administered to children less than 1 year of age. However, the number of cases does not represent an increased risk over what would be expected to occur among children less than 1 year of age who did not receive the vaccine. Further, a known cause and effect relationship between rotavirus vaccine administration or any vaccine and the occurrence of Kawasaki disease does not exist. In placebo-controlled trials of Rotarix®, Kawasaki disease was reported in 17 Rotarix® recipients and in 9 placebo recipients for a relative risk of 1.71 (95% CI, 0.71—4.38). The time of onset of Kawasaki disease after Rotarix® administration ranged from 3 days to 19 months. The etiology of Kawasaki disease has not been determined; the condition is characterized by high fever and inflammation of the blood vessels. Healthcare providers and other individuals are encouraged to report any cases of Kawasaki disease or other severe adverse events to the VAERS by calling 800—822—7967.Adverse reactions after administration of rotavirus vaccine appear to be rare. The safety of RotaTeq® has been studied in over 70,000 infants who received the vaccine or placebo in three phase 3 clinical trials. Roughly 2.5% of infants in each group had a serious adverse event reported within the 42-day period of a dose. All serious adverse events occurred at an incidence of = 100.5 degrees F or 38.1 degrees C) was noted in roughly 17—20% of active treatment groups vs. 16—19% of placebo. Vomiting was reported in 3.6—6.7% of the active groups vs. 3.2—5.4% of placebo patients, with higher frequencies occurring with the first dose of the vaccine series. Diarrhea frequency ranged from 6.1—10.4% in the active groups vs. 5.4—9.1% of placebo patients, again with higher frequencies during the first dose. Adverse event frequencies occurring within 42 days of any vaccine dose (n=6138) compared to placebo (n=5573) were also monitored. Statistically higher incidences were seen for diarrhea (24.1% vaccine vs. 21.3% placebo); vomiting (15.2% vs.13.6%); otitis media (14.5% vs.13%); nasopharyngitis (6.9% vs 5.8%); and bronchospasm (1.1% vs.0.7%). In regard to Rotarix®, similar percentages of patients who received either Rotarix® or placebo had irritability, cough, rhinorrhea, fever, anorexia, vomiting, or diarrhea.An increased risk of intussusception (i.e., a GI obstruction in which one segment of the bowel becomes enfolded within another segment) was reported with the previously licensed live rhesus rotavirus-based vaccine (RotaShield®), which was withdrawn from the U.S. market in October 1999. In the Rotavirus Efficacy and Safety Trial (REST) with RotaTeq® (n=69,625), the data did not show an increased risk of intussusception for RotaTeq® when compared to placebo. In REST, > 68,000 vaccine and placebo recipients were monitored to identify potential cases of intussusception at 7, 14, and 42 days after each dose, and every 6 weeks thereafter for 1 year after the first dose. There were 6 cases of intussusception occurring within 42 days of any dose (6 cases in active treatment group and 5 cases in placebo group). Among vaccine recipients, there were no confirmed cases of intussusception within the 42-day period after the first dose, which was the period of highest risk for the withdrawn rhesus rotavirus-based product. All of the children who developed intussusception recovered without sequelae with the exception of a 9-month-old male who developed intussusception 98 days after dose 3 and died of post-operative sepsis. There was a single case of intussusception among 2470 recipients of RotaTeq® in a 7-month-old male in the phase 1 and 2 studies (716 placebo recipients). Twenty-eight post-marketing cases of intussusception after dose 1, 2, and 3 have been reported to the FDA between February 3, 2006 and January 31, 2007; approximately half of the cases occurred 1—21 days (range, 0—73 days) after vaccination. No deaths occurred, but 16 infants required hospitalization and surgery on their intestine, and the other 12 infants had reduction of the intussusception by contrast or air enema. Twenty-eight cases does not exceed the number expected based on background rates of 18—43/100,000/year for an unvaccinated population of infants 6—35 weeks of age. However, all intussusception cases may not have been reported. In regard to Rotarix®, no increased risk of intussusception was noted within 31 days of any Rotarix® dose; 6 cases among 31,673 Rotarix® recipients and 7 cases among 31,552 placebo recipients; no confirmed cases of intussusception during the first 14 days after the first dose were noted among vaccine recipients. Among infants who were observed for up to one year after dose one, 4 cases among 10,159 Rotarix® recipients and 14 cases among 10,010 placebo recipients were noted. All of the infants who developed intussusception recovered without sequelae. During the post-marketing period for RotaTeq®, a fatal case of intussusception and hematochezia was reported. Hematochezia has also been reported with Rotarix® during the post-marketing period. Healthcare practitioners are encouraged to report any adverse events to the FDA. In addition to reported events, 2 large post-marketing studies are being conducted to evaluate the intussusception risk.Seizures reported as serious adverse events occurred in 70,000) of RotaTeq® or placebo recipients in phase 3 clinical trials; the differences were not statistically significant. Febrile seizures occurred in 5 patients in each group.Deaths that were reported across all RotaTeq® clinical trials include 25 deaths in vaccine recipients compared to 27 deaths in placebo recipients. The most common cause of death was sudden infant death syndrome. In the Rotavirus Efficacy and Safety Trial (REST), no investigators blinded to treatment attributed deaths due to vaccination with RotaTeq®. During the entire course of 8 clinical studies, 68 (0.19%) deaths after Rotarix® administration to 36,755 patients and 50 (0.15%) deaths after placebo administration to 34,454 patients occurred. The most commonly reported cause of death after vaccination was pneumonia, which was observed in 19 (0.05%) Rotarix® recipients and in 10 (0.03%) placebo recipients.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Deaths that were reported across all RotaTeq clinical trials include 25 deaths in vaccine recipients compared to 27 deaths in placebo recipients. The most common cause of death was sudden infant death syndrome. During the course of 8 clinical trials of Rotarix, pneumonia was the most commonly reported cause of death in vaccine recipients. It was reported in 19 (0.05%) rotavirus vaccine recipients compared to 10 (0.03%) placebo recipients (RR: 1.74, 95% CI: 0.76, 4.23).
    Headline
    fever, irritability
    General Information
    Fever is a commonly reported event after rotavirus vaccine administration. However, clinical trials show similar rates between vaccine and placebo groups. Among 6,138 vaccine recipients, 42.6% reported fever within 42 days, compared to 42.8% of 5,573 placebo recipients. In phase 3 studies, fever (at least 100.5 degrees F or 38.1 degrees C) occurred in 17.1% to 20% of vaccine recipients and 16% to 19% of placebo recipients within 1 week of administration. Serious fever was rare (0.1%) and occurred equally in both groups. Among premature infants (25 to 36 weeks gestational age), fever rates within one week of doses 1, 2, and 3 were 18.1%, 25%, and 14.8%. In other clinical trials, fever occurred in 25% of patients after the first dose and 28% after the second dose of the rotavirus vaccine, compared to 33% and 34% in placebo recipients. Kawasaki disease has rarely been reported after rotavirus vaccination. In phase 3 clinical trials, Kawasaki disease was reported in 5 of 36,150 infants receiving the rotavirus vaccine, compared to 1 case in 35,536 placebo recipients. In a postmarketing study of 85,150 vaccinated infants, 1 case occurred 23 days after dose 3 (similar to 1 case in DTaP-only controls). Kawasaki disease was also reported in another study in 18 rotavirus vaccine recipients and in 9 placebo recipients (RR 1.71; 95% CI, 0.71 to 4.38), with onset ranging from 3 days to 19 months post-vaccination. In the REST trial, parents recorded adverse events for 4,382 to 5,616 infants after each of the 3 doses of rotavirus vaccine or placebo. Irritability was reported in 7.1% after dose 1, 6% after dose 2, and 4.3% after dose 3, similar to placebo. Among premature infants (25 to 36 weeks gestational age), irritability occurred in 3.9%, 2.9%, and 8.1% after doses 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Other studies showed similar rates of irritability in rotavirus vaccine and placebo groups (42% to 52% in both).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, diarrhea, flatulence, vomiting
    General Information
    The safety of rotavirus vaccine has been studied in over 70,000 infants who received the vaccine or placebo in three phase 3 clinical trials. Parents/guardians recorded the adverse event information daily during the first week after each of the 3 required doses. The size of each treatment or placebo group ranged from 4,382 to 5,616 infants. Vomiting was reported in 3.6 to 6.7% of the active groups vs. 3.2 to 5.4% of placebo patients, with higher frequencies occurring with the first dose of the vaccine series. Diarrhea frequency ranged from 6.1 to 10.4% in the active groups vs. 5.4 to 9.1% of placebo patients, again with higher frequencies during the first dose. Adverse event frequencies occurring within 42 days of any vaccine dose (n = 6,138) compared to placebo (n = 5,573) were also monitored. Statistically higher incidences were seen for diarrhea (24.1% vaccine vs. 21.3% placebo) and vomiting (15.2% vs.13.6%). Hematochezia occurred within 42 days of any dose in 0.6% of infants who received rotavirus vaccine (n = 6,130) or placebo (n = 5,560). Among 2,070 preterm infants (25 to 36 weeks gestational age), the following adverse events were reported within the first week of rotavirus vaccine administration: vomiting (5.8% after dose 1, 2.9% after dose 2, and 4.4% after dose 3), and diarrhea (6.5% after dose 1, 7.3% after dose 2, and 3.7% after dose 3). Similar percentages of patients who received either rotavirus vaccine or placebo had anorexia (21 to 25% rotavirus vaccine vs. 21 to 25% placebo), vomiting (8 to 13% vs. 8 to 11%), flatulence (2.2% vs. 1.3%), or diarrhea (3 to 4% vs. 3%). Serious adverse events including diarrhea (0.02% rotavirus vaccine vs. 0.07% placebo) occurred during a 31-day period following vaccination in 8 clinical trials. Gastroenteritis, regarded as a serious adverse event, occurred in 0.2% of rotavirus vaccine recipients compared to 0.3% with placebo. Gastroenteritis associated with prolonged vaccine viral shedding in infants with severe combined immunodeficiency disease (SCID), resulting in severe diarrhea, and acute gastroenteritis associated with vaccine viral shedding in infants without known immune deficiency has been observed during postmarketing surveillance.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    intussusception
    General Information
    The rotavirus vaccines are contraindicated in patients with a history of intussusception. The risk of intussusception with current rotavirus vaccines is unclear. The earlier RotaShield vaccine was withdrawn in 1999 due to increased risk. However, pre-marketing trials of current vaccines showed no increased risk compared to placebo. Cases of intussusception have been reported in temporal association with rotavirus vaccine during the postmarketing period; some cases have resulted in death. In the first year of life, the background rate for intussusception hospitalizations in the US is approximately 34 per 100,000 infants. A postmarketing study found a slight increase in intussusception cases within 21 days of the first rotavirus vaccine dose, especially in the first 7 days (approximately 1 to 1.5 excess cases of intussusception per 100,000 vaccinated US infants). In a large phase 3 trial, intussusception occurred in 13 of 34,837 vaccine recipients and 15 of 34,788 placebo recipients within 1 year. Within 42 days of any dose, 6 cases were confirmed in vaccine recipients and 5 in placebo, with none occurring in vaccine recipients within 42 days of the first dose, the highest risk period for RotaShield. The relative risk was 1.6 (95% CI, 0.4 to 6.4), meeting safety criteria. In trials involving over 31,000 infants per group, 6 cases of intussusception occurred within 31 days of any rotavirus vaccine dose compared to 7 cases with placebo; within 100 days after dose 1, 9 cases were reported with rotavirus vaccine compared to 16 with placebo. In a 2-year study of over 1 million infants in Mexico, a cluster of intussusception cases was seen within 1 week of the first rotavirus vaccine dose (relative incidence 6.49; 95% CI 4.17 to 10.09, p less than 0.001). The risk after dose 2 was not significant. Overall, the risk within 31 days post-vaccination was modestly elevated (RR 1.75; 95% CI 1.24 to 2.48, p = 0.001). The estimated attributable risk was 3 to 4 additional cases per 100,000 vaccinated infants, though the study didn't account for all potential risk factors. In a U.S.cohort study of 786,725 rotavirus vaccine doses (309,844 first doses), no increased risk of intussusception was found. After dose 1, 7 cases occurred compared to 5.7 expected cases and after 30 days post-vaccination, 21 cases occurred compared to 20.9 expected. The risk of intussusception must be weighed against the proven benefits of vaccination. In a US postmarketing study of 85,150 infants, no increased risk of intussusception was found; 6 cases occurred within 30 days of any rotavirus dose compared to 5 cases in a concurrent DTaP control group (RR 0.8, 95% CI, 0.22 to 3.52). Timing of doses within the recommended age range did not affect intussusception rates.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      intussusception
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    Seizures reported as serious adverse events occurred in less than 0.1% of rotavirus vaccine or placebo recipients in phase 3 clinical trials; the differences were not statistically significant. Febrile seizures occurred in 5 patients in each group.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, purpura, urticaria
    General Information
    Adverse events reported with postmarketing use of rotavirus vaccine have included anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, urticaria, and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    viral shedding
    General Information
    Caution is advised when considering whether to administer the rotavirus vaccine to individuals with immunodeficient close contacts; transmission of vaccine virus strains from vaccinees to non-vaccinated contacts has been observed. In rotavirus studies, viral shedding in the stool was observed as early as 1 day and as late as 15 days after a dose, with up to 8.9% of 360 infants experiencing shedding postdose. In rotavirus vaccine studies, peak shedding occurred around day 7 after dose 1, and 18.8% (95% CI 10.9 to 29) of twin infants who did not receive the vaccine tested positive for the virus in their stool after their twin received rotavirus vaccine. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) generally favors vaccination of the infant in order to protect the vaccinee and contacts against rotavirus gastroenteritis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      viral shedding
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cystitis
    General Information
    Urinary tract infections or cystitis was a serious adverse event reported in 0.1% of rotavirus vaccine recipients (n = 36,165) within 42 days after a dose. Urinary tract infections also occurred in 0.1% of placebo patients (n = 35,560). Counsel patients to report any signs or symptoms of a systemic reaction to a health care provider.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bronchospasm, cough, pharyngitis, rhinorrhea
    General Information
    The safety of rotavirus vaccine has been studied in over 70,000 infants who received rotavirus vaccine or placebo in phase 3 clinical trials. Roughly 2.5% of infants in each group had a serious adverse event reported within the 42-day period of a dose. Reported serious respiratory adverse events for rotavirus vaccine compared to placebo included bronchiolitis (0.6% vs. 0.7% placebo) and pneumonia (0.2 vs. 0.2%). In 2,070 preterm infants (25 to 36 weeks gestational age) who received rotavirus vaccine or placebo, bronchiolitis occurred in 1.4% and 2% of vaccine and placebo recipients, respectively. During the entire course of 8 clinical studies, 68 (0.19%) deaths after rotavirus vaccine administration to 36,755 patients and 50 (0.15%) deaths after placebo administration to 34,454 patients occurred. The most commonly reported cause of death after vaccination was pneumonia, which was observed in 19 (0.05%) rotavirus vaccine recipients and in 10 (0.03%) placebo recipients. In a detailed safety cohort study in a subset of patients from the REST trial (n = 11,711) adverse events with frequencies that were statistically higher with rotavirus vaccine compared to placebo included bronchospasm (1.1% vs. 0.7% placebo), naso-pharyngitis (6.9% vs. 5.8%), and otitis media (14.5% vs. 13%). During clinical trials with rotavirus vaccine, similar percentages of patients who received either rotavirus vaccine or placebo had cough (28 to 31% vs. 30 to 33%) or rhinorrhea (28 to 31% vs 30 to 33%). Counsel patients to report any signs or symptoms of a systemic reaction to a health care provider.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rhinorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Rotavirus vaccine is a live virus vaccine administered orally for immunization against rotavirus gastroenteritis, the most common cause of severe gastroenteritis in infants and children. Rotavirus gastroenteritis produces significant morbidity that can lead to fatalities. Different formulations of the vaccine exist; a pentavalent human-bovine rotavirus vaccine (RV5 or RotaTeq) and a monovalent human rotavirus vaccine (RV1 or Rotarix). RV5 protects against rotavirus gastroenteritis caused by the serotypes G1, G2, G3, G4, and G9 while RV1 protects against rotavirus gastroenteritis caused by the serotypes G1, G3, G4, and G9. Efficacy studies have demonstrated protection rates against severe rotavirus disease of 92% to 98% and 85% to 96% for RV5 and RV1, respectively. Sustained protection against rotavirus disease has also been observed up until at least 4 years for RV5 and until at least 2 years of age for RV1. Vaccine efficacy for preventing rotavirus-associated hospitalizations and emergency department visits has been noted to be approximately 84% to 96% and 70% to 96% for patients immunized with RV5 and RV1, respectively. The first rotavirus vaccine (RRV-TV or Rotashield) was associated with intussusception and subsequently withdrawn from the US market; concern that RV1 or RV5 may increase the risk for intussusception motivated investigation during clinical trials. In 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of RV1 or RV5, the risk of intussusception after immunization was no greater in infants that received the vaccines compared to those who received placebo. However, intussusception has been temporally associated with rotavirus vaccine during postmarketing experience, particularly within the first 7 days after vaccination. The FDA approved RotaTeq in February 2006. Rotarix was FDA-approved in April 2008.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The exact immunologic mechanism by which rotavirus vaccine protects against rotavirus gastroenteritis is unknown. The live attenuated or reassortant viral vaccine replicates in the small intestine and induces immunity. A relationship between antibody responses to rotavirus vaccine and protection against rotavirus gastroenteritis has not been established.

Pharmacokinetics
  Special Populations
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Infants 6 weeks and older
After 2 doses of RV1 (Rotarix), 86.5% of 787 infants seroconverted as compared with 6.7% of 420 placebo recipients. Similar findings were noted in another study (76.8% of 393 of RV1 recipients vs. 9.7% of 341 placebo recipients); seroconversion was defined as the appearance of anti-rotavirus serum IgA antibodies (concentration 20 units/mL and higher) after vaccination of infants previously negative for rotavirus. A relationship between antibody responses and protection from clinical rotavirus disease is not established.
 
During phase 3 studies, an increase in the concentration of anti-rotavirus serum IgA antibodies was used as a marker of seroconversion from RV5 (RotaTeq). After a 3-dose regimen, 93% to 100% of 439 RV5 recipients achieved a 3-fold or more rise in serum anti-rotavirus IgA compared with 12% to 20% of 397 placebo recipients. A relationship between antibody responses and protection from clinical rotavirus disease is not established.
  Text
  The rotavirus vaccine is administered orally. The pharmacokinetics of the vaccine are not well defined.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Verify immunization status in the state or local immunization information system in addition to the health care electronic record. If this vaccine has been previously given, question the patient, parent, or guardian about any symptoms or signs of an adverse reaction.
Advise individuals on the benefits and risks of the vaccine. Provide a copy of the Vaccine Information Statement (VIS).
Record manufacturer, lot number, administration date, and the name and address of the person administering the vaccine.
Ensure supportive care, including epinephrine 1 mg/mL injection, is readily accessible in the event of a clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction.
Complete a Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) report if adverse events have been identified. The VAERS toll-free information line is 1-800-822-7967 and email address is info@vaers.org.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      RotaTeq
Ampule
Separate the ampule from the strip. If there are remaining ampules on the strip, immediately place the remaining ampules in the carton to protect them from light and store in a refrigerator.
Clear the fluid from the dispensing tip by holding the ampule vertically and tapping.
Open the ampule in one motion, being careful not to squeeze the ampule.
Dispose of the separated top in an approved biological waste container according to local regulations.
Administer the dose by gently squeezing the liquid into the infant's mouth toward the inner cheek until the ampule is empty. A residual drop may remain in the tip of the ampule.
If an incomplete dose is administered for any reason (infant spits or regurgitates the vaccine), a replacement dose is not recommended. The infant should continue to receive any remaining doses in the recommended series.
Discard the ampule in an approved biological waste container.
Tube
Tear the protective pouch, and remove the tube.
Hold the tube vertically and tap the cap to remove any fluid.
Turn the cap clockwise to puncture the dispensing tip until it becomes tight. Turn the cap counterclockwise to remove the cap.
Do not dilute or reconstitute the solution. Do not mix with any other vaccines or solutions. Administer directly into the mouth by squirting the solution on the inside of the cheek. Give all the solution in the tube. A residual drop may remain in the tube tip.
Do not give a replacement dose if an incomplete dose is administered for any reason. The infant should continue to receive any remaining doses in the recommended series.
Dispose of the empty tube and cap in an approved biological waste container.
 
Rotarix
Preparation
Remove protective tip cap from oral dosing applicator. The vaccine should be clear and colorless. A single dose is 1.5 mL.
Storage: Store refrigerated at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F). Do not freeze. Keep in original package to protect from light.
 
Oral Administration
Delay administration of Rotarix in infants with acute diarrhea or vomiting.
Place the infant seated in a reclining position.
Place the oral dosing applicator towards the inner cheek. Administer the entire contents into the infant's mouth.
If the infant spits out or regurgitates most of the vaccine dose, consider a single replacement dose at the same vaccination visit.
Dispose of the applicator and vaccine vial in a biohazard waste container.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    For oral use only. Do NOT administer parenterally.
Do not mix with any other vaccines or solutions.
The child may have food or drink, including breast milk, before or after vaccine administration.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Older than 32 weeks: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
6 to 32 weeks: 2 mL/dose PO of RV5 (RotaTeq); 1.5 mL/dose PO of RV1 (Rotarix oral dosing applicator only); 1 mL/dose PO of RV1 (Rotarix vial and oral dosing applicator).
Younger than 6 weeks: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. However, consult current immunization schedules for recommended vaccines for use in young dialysis patients; ACIP states that all routine vaccinations are likely effective in individuals with chronic renal disease.
