=== Zidesamtinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5685)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Zidesamtinib is a tyrosine kinase ROS1 inhibitor, including an inhibitor of ROS1 resistance mutations.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 100 mg PO/day.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, headache, syncope, vertigo, amnesia, aphasia, confusion, delirium, hallucinations, impaired cognition, memory impairment, agitation, anxiety, depression, emotional lability, irritability, suicidal ideation, cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use zidesamtinib with caution in patients with a history of psychiatric disorder or neurological disease. Emetic risk: Minimal Hazardous drug: Approved by FDA after NIOSH 2024 list was published and...

Dosage Forms
  - JIDEYTRO 100mg Tablet
  - JIDEYTRO 25mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients who have received a prior ROS1 kinase inhibitor
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          100 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment with zidesamtinib resulted in a 44% confirmed response rate (complete response, 0.9%) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic ROS1-positive NSCLC who had previously received a ROS1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) in a multicenter, single-arm, open-label, multicohort clinical trial (ARROS-1); the overall response rate was 49% in patients who had received 1 prior ROS1 TKI, and was 38% in patients who had received 2 or more prior ROS1 TKIs. The duration of response was at least 6 months in 82% of patients, and at least 12 months in 69% of patients (range, 1.9 to 28.5 months or longer).
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, neurological disease, psychiatric disorder
    General Information
    Use zidesamtinib with caution in patients with a history of psychiatric disorder or neurological disease. Zidesamtinib can cause a broad spectrum of central nervous system (CNS) adverse reactions including dizziness, ataxia, cognitive and psychiatric disorders. Monitor patients for CNS adverse reactions and suicidal thoughts and behaviors during treatment. Patients should avoid performing activities requiring coordination and concentration including driving or operating machinery if experiencing CNS reactions. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if CNS effects occur, depending on the severity.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use zidesamtinib with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Zidesamtinib has not been studied in patients with a history of QTcF greater than 450 msec on more than one assessment prior to initiation. Evaluate electrocardiograms and electrolytes at baseline and periodically during treatment in all patients; adjust the frequency of monitoring based on risk factors including those listed previously. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs, depending on the severity.
    Headline
    nonmalignant pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use zidesamtinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing nonmalignant pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with zidesamtinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt zidesamtinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms. A dose reduction or permanent discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for recurrent or severe pneumonitis.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of zidesamtinib during pregnancy. Zidesamtinib can cause fetal harm based on its mechanism of action and animal studies; published reports in humans also suggest a correlation between congenital decreases in tropomyosin receptor kinase (TRK)-mediated signaling and obesity, developmental delays, cognitive impairment, insensitivity to pain, and anhidrosis. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. Oral administration of zidesamtinib to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in decreased fetal body weight, visceral malformations (absent kidneys and ureter), and an increase in the incidence of skeletal variations (e.g., misshapen sternebra and cervical arch, and incomplete ossification of the sternebra and thoracic centrum) at maternal exposures approximately equivalent to the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC. Apprise individuals receiving zidesamtinib of the potential hazard to the fetus. Complete post-implantation loss occurred at approximately 3.5 times the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC or higher. Apprise individuals receiving zidesamtinib of the potential hazard to the fetus.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with zidesamtinib. Zidesamtinib may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking zidesamtinib and for 6 months after the last dose. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during zidesamtinib treatment and for 3 months after the last dose. Zidesamtinib can cause male-mediated teratogenicity. Zidesamtinib can cause male and female infertility based on animal studies; while the effects on male fertility were reversible, the reversibility of female infertility is unknown.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking zidesamtinib and for 1 week after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of zidesamtinib or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of zidesamtinib during pregnancy. Zidesamtinib can cause fetal harm based on its mechanism of action and animal studies; published reports in humans also suggest a correlation between congenital decreases in tropomyosin receptor kinase (TRK)-mediated signaling and obesity, developmental delays, cognitive impairment, insensitivity to pain, and anhidrosis. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. Oral administration of zidesamtinib to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in decreased fetal body weight, visceral malformations (absent kidneys and ureter), and an increase in the incidence of skeletal variations (e.g., misshapen sternebra and cervical arch, and incomplete ossification of the sternebra and thoracic centrum) at maternal exposures approximately equivalent to the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC. Apprise individuals receiving zidesamtinib of the potential hazard to the fetus. Complete post-implantation loss occurred at approximately 3.5 times the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC or higher. Apprise individuals receiving zidesamtinib of the potential hazard to the fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking zidesamtinib and for 1 week after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of zidesamtinib or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and adagrasib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and amiodarone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and avacopan due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and berotralstat due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ceritinib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and chloramphenicol due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ciprofloxacin due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and clofazimine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and clozapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and conivaptan due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and crizotinib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and cyclosporine due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and dasatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and dexmedetomidine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and diltiazem due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and dordaviprone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and dronedarone. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and may increase zidesamtinib exposure and the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and duvelisib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased zidesamtinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased zidesamtinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased zidesamtinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and eliglustat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and encorafenib due to the risk for decreased zidesamtinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and erythromycin due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and escitalopram may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and etrasimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fedratinib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased zidesamtinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fingolimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fluconazole. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and may increase zidesamtinib exposure and the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fluoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fluvoxamine due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fosamprenavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and injectable fosfomycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and injectable fosfomycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and gemifloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and gemtuzumab ozogamicin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and gepirone may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and gepotidacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and givinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and granisetron may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during zidesamtinib treatment due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure and adverse reactions. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and haloperidol may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and hydroxyzine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and idelalisib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and imatinib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and inotuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and isavuconazonium due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and itraconazole. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and may increase zidesamtinib exposure and the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ketoconazole. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and may increase zidesamtinib exposure and the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lapatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lefamulin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lefamulin. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and use with oral lefamulin may increase zidesamtinib exposure and the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and letermovir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and levofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ketoconazole. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and may increase zidesamtinib exposure and the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lithium may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lonafarnib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold. (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lopinavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and mavorixafor may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and mefloquine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and methadone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and mifepristone due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and mirtazapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and nefazodone due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and nelfinavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and netupitant due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and nilotinib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and nirogacestat due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and fluoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased zidesamtinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of zidesamtinib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of zidesamtinib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and posaconazole. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and may increase zidesamtinib exposure and the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and primaquine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of zidesamtinib and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ranolazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and relacorilant due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and revumenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and risperidone may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and saquinavir. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and may increase zidesamtinib exposure and the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and sertraline may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and solifenacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and sunitinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and tacrolimus may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and taletrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and tamoxifen may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and tipranavir due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and tolterodine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and verapamil due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and triclabendazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of zidesamtinib and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and tucatinib due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and vardenafil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and vepdegestrant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and verapamil due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and voclosporin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure, which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects, and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and voriconazole. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and may increase zidesamtinib exposure and the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and voxelotor due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ziftomenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dizziness, headache, syncope, vertigo
    General Information
    Dizziness including vertigo and presyncope and headache were each reported in 12% (grade 3, 0.2%) of patients treated with zidesamtinib at the recommended dose in a pooled safety population (n = 446). The median time to onset of dizziness was 22 days. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary, depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    ataxia, gait disturbance
    General Information
    Ataxia including gait disturbance and balance disorder was reported in 2% of patients treated with zidesamtinib at the recommended dose in a pooled safety population (n = 446). The median time to onset was 64 days. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary, depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gait disturbance
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    amnesia, aphasia, confusion, delirium, hallucinations, impaired cognition, memory impairment
    General Information
    Impaired cognition occurred in 9% of patients treated with zidesamtinib at the recommended dose in a pooled safety population (grade 3 or 4, 1.6%), including memory impairment (3.1%), cognitive disorder (1.6%), hallucinations (1.1%), delirium (1.1%), aphasia (0.9%), amnesia (0.7%), confusion (0.7%), anterograde amnesia (0.2%), disturbance in attention (0.4%), slow speech (0.2%). The median time to onset of cognitive impairment was 43 days. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary, depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      aphasia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, depression, emotional lability, irritability, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Psychiatric disorders occurred in 6% of patients treated with zidesamtinib at the recommended dose in a pooled safety population (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%), including anxiety (3.1%), depression (1.3%), agitation (0.7%), emotional lability (0.4%), irritability (0.4%), abnormal behavior (0.2%), depressed mood (0.2%), personality change (0.2%), psychotic disorder (0.2%), and suicidal ideation (0.2%). The median time to onset of psychiatric disorders was 57 days. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary, depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    Seizures (grade 3) were reported in 1 patient (0.2%) with brain metastases treated with zidesamtinib at the recommended dose in a pooled safety population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    QT prolongation can occur in patients treated with zidesamtinib. In a pooled safety population (n = 435), 2% of patients who underwent at least one post-baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) assessment experienced an increase in QTcF of greater than 60 msec from baseline, and 0.2% experienced an increase in QTcF to greater than 500 msec. The largest mean increase in QTc interval after administration of zidesamtinib 100 mg once daily was 13 msec (upper confidence interval, 19 msec). The median time from the first dose of zidesamtinib to the onset of QTc prolongation was 15 days. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs, depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis
    General Information
    Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis occurred in 1.8% of patients treated with zidesamtinib at the recommended dose in a pooled safety population (grade 3 or 4, 0.4%). The median time to first onset was 4.5 months. Dyspnea (15%; grade 3 or 4, 3%) and cough (13%) were also reported in patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort clinical trial. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if ILD/pneumonitis is suspected and/or confirmed, depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial lung disease
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bone fractures
    General Information
    Bone fractures occurred in 1.1% of patients treated with zidesamtinib at the recommended dose in a pooled safety population; grade 3 ankle fractures occurred in 0.4% of patients. Some fractures occurred in the setting of an accidental fall or other predisposing factors such as osteoporosis, bone metastasis, and age-related degenerative conditions. The median time to fracture was 48 days.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bone fractures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated creatine kinase, myalgia
    General Information
    Myalgia occurred in 13% of patients who received zidesamtinib at the recommended dose in a pooled safety population; concurrent myalgia with elevated creatine kinase (creatine phosphokinase; CPK) occurred in 2.1% of patients. The median time to onset of myalgia for patients with concurrent CPK elevation was 2 months. Increased CPK from baseline reported separately from myalgia occurred in 37% (grade 3 or 4, 4%) of zidesamtinib-treated patients in an open-label, multicohort trial. Advise patients to report unexplained muscle pain or tenderness. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary, depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperamylasemia, pancreatitis
    General Information
    Hyperamylasemia including increased amylase from baseline (22%) and increased lipase (25%; grade 3, 8%) were reported in patients treated with zidesamtinib at the recommended dose in a pooled safety population; grade 3 pancreatitis occurred in one patient (0.2%). The median time to onset of grade 3 increased lipase was 143 days. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary, depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperamylasemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema
    General Information
    Edema occurred in 38% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%) of patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue occurred in 16% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%) of patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 25% (grade 3 or 4, 0.9%) of patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysgeusia
    General Information
    Dysgeusia occurred in 15% of patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea
    General Information
    Constipation (17%) and diarrhea (11%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) were reported in patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia
    General Information
    Arthralgia occurred in 11% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%) of patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rash
    General Information
    Rash occurred in 12% (grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) of patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    visual impairment
    General Information
    Vision disorders including visual impairment occurred in 12% of patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    stomatitis
    General Information
    Stomatitis occurred in less than 10% of patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Infection has been reported in patients treated with zidesamtinib, including pneumonia in 11% of patients in an open-label, multicohort trial (grade 3 or 4, 6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia have been reported in patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial, including increases from baseline in cholesterol (47%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5%) and triglycerides (47%; grade 3 or 4, 3.7%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported in patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial, including increased AST (30%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%), increased ALT (23%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2%), and increased alkaline phosphatase (21%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia
    General Information
    Anemia has been reported in patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial, including decreases in hemoglobin from baseline in 30% of patients (grade 3 or 4, 2.1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    eosinophilia
    General Information
    Eosinophilia has been reported in patients treated with zidesamtinib in an open-label, multicohort trial, including increases in eosinophils from baseline in 27% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      eosinophilia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Zidesamtinib can cause male and female infertility based on animal studies; while the effects on male fertility were reversible, the reversibility of female infertility is unknown.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Zidesamtinib is a tyrosine kinase ROS1 inhibitor, including an inhibitor of ROS1 resistance mutations. It is FDA-approved for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who have received a prior ROS1 kinase inhibitor. Zidesamtinib can cause QT prolongation as well as elevations in creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) and pancreatic enzymes; monitor electrolytes, electrocardiogram (ECG), CPK level, amylase, and lipase at baseline and during treatment. Zidesamtinib was approved by the FDA in July 2026.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Zidesamtinib is an inhibitor of tyrosine kinase ROS1, including ROS1 resistance mutations. In vitro, zidesamtinib inhibited the viability of cultured cells expressing ROS1 fusion genes and resistance mutations (G2032R, S1986F, F2004C/V, L2026M, D2033N, and G2101A). In mice subcutaneously implanted with tumors harboring ROS1 fusions, including the G2032R mutation, administration of zidesamtinib resulted in tumor growth inhibition. Zidesamtinib had antitumor activity in an intracranial NSCLC xenograft model harboring a ROS1 fusion.
In a biochemical assay, zidesamtinib inhibited ROS1 (IC50 = 0.7 nM) and also showed inhibitory effects on ALK (IC50 = 3 nM) and tropomyosin receptor kinases (TRKs), TRKB (IC50 = 54 nM), TRKC (IC50 = 193 nM) and TRKA (IC50 = 258 nM).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The steady-state Cmax of zidesamtinib at the recommended dose is 934 nanog/mL (CV, 44%) and total systemic exposure (AUC) is 8,310 nanog x h/mL (CV, 37%). The Cmax and AUC of zidesamtinib increase in a dose-proportional manner, with accumulation of approximately 1.5-fold; steady-state is reached in approximately 4 days. The median time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) is 1 hour, and the absolute bioavailability of zidesamtinib is 83%.
No clinically significant differences in zidesamtinib exposure were observed in healthy participants following administration of a high fat meal (approximately 1,000 calories with 60% fat).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 1 to 3 times the upper limit of normal [ULN] with any AST; or AST greater than ULN) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of zidesamtinib. The effect of severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN with any AST) on the pharmacokinetics of zidesamtinib is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 90 mL/min) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of zidesamtinib. The effect of severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/min) or dialysis on the pharmacokinetics of zidesamtinib is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (26 to 87 years) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of zidesamtinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of zidesamtinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (White, 44%; Asian, 38%; Black, 4%) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of zidesamtinib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (36 to 162 kg) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of zidesamtinib.
  Text
  Zidesamtinib is administered orally. It is 79% bound to plasma proteins in a non-concentration-dependent manner in vitro; the blood-to-plasma ratio in vitro was 0.9. The apparent volume of distribution of zidesamtinib is 326 L (CV, 18%). The elimination half-life of zidesamtinib is 18 (CV, 51%) hours with an apparent clearance of 12 L/h (CV, 37%). Zidesamtinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A with minor contributions from CYP1A2 and CYP2C8. M9 is an active des-ethyl metabolite with one-third the activity of zidesamtinib and representing 48% of the zidesamtinib AUC. Approximately 47% of a radiolabeled dose was recovered in the urine (less than 1% unchanged) and 33% in the feces (less than 2% as unchanged).
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP3A, P-gp, BCRP, and MATE1
Zidesamtinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A with minor contributions from CYP1A2 and CYP2C8. Concomitant use with itraconazole (a strong CYP3A inhibitor) increased the AUC of zidesamtinib by 2.6-fold and its Cmax by 1.8-fold; concomitant use of zidesamtinib with CYP3A inducers may decrease zidesamtinib exposure. In vitro, zidesamtinib inhibits P-gp, BCRP, and MATE1.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
Approved by FDA after NIOSH 2024 list was published and meets criteria for NIOSH Table 2 Hazardous Drugs.
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
Emetic Risk
Minimal
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      May be administered with or without food.
Swallow tablets whole; do not split, chew, crush, or dissolve.
If a dose is missed by less than 12 hours, administer the dose as soon as possible. If the dose is missed by 12 hours or more, take the next dose at its scheduled time.
If vomiting occurs, do not repeat the dose; take the next dose at its scheduled time.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    100 mg PO/day.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    100 mg PO/day.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild or moderate hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 1 to 3 times the upper limit of normal [ULN] with any AST; or AST greater than ULN): No dosage adjustment is recommended.
Severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN with any AST): The effect on zidesamtinib exposure is unknown.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 30 mL/min or greater: No dosage adjustment is recommended.
CrCl less than 30 mL/min or dialysis: The effect on zidesamtinib exposure is unknown.
