=== hydrALAZINE/Isosorbide Dinitrate (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3438)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate, ISDN (BiDil®) represents the first race-based drug therapy to be approved by the FDA.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 225 mg/day PO hydralazine and 120 mg/day PO isosorbide dinitrate.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): angina, bradycardia, fluid retention, flushing, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, peripheral edema, peripheral vasodilation, sinus tachycardia, syncope, ventricular tachycardia, weakness, weight gain, asthenia, hypoesthesia, impaired cognition, migraine, neuritis, paresthesias, dysgeusia, ileus, amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, lacrimation, erythema, hyperhidrosis, pruritus

In an Overdose: Due to the pharmacology of hydralazine, complications of excessive dosage (or overdosage) can include hypotension, sinus tachycardia, angina, myocardial ischemia, and myocardial infarction.Other adverse events reported in A-HeFT with the...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: This monograph discusses the contraindications/precautions of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate combination products.

Brand Names
  - BiDil

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        37.5 mg hydralazine; 20 mg isosorbide dinitrate PO 3 times daily, initially. Increase the dose every 3 to 5 days to the highest dosage level tolerated. Max: 75 mg hydralazine; 40 mg isosorbide dinitrate PO 3 times daily. Reduce dose to 18.75 mg hydralazine; 10 mg isosorbide dinitrate 3 times daily if adverse effects are intolerable. Increase the dose upward again when side effects subside. Guidelines recommend hydralazine plus isosorbide dinitrate to improve symptoms and reduce morbidity and mortality in persons self-identified as Black with NYHA class III to IV reduced ejection fraction heart failure (HFrEF) who are receiving optimal medical therapy. In persons with HFrEF who cannot be given first-line agents, such as an angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), because of drug intolerance or renal insufficiency, a combination of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate may be considered to reduce morbidity and mortality.
    Heading
    For the treatment of heart failure as an adjunct in persons self-identified as Black who are receiving standard heart failure therapy

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the contraindications/precautions of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate combination products. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.
 
Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate is absolutely contraindicated in patients who have known nitrate hypersensitivity. Specific precautions should be taken appropriate to each component of this product.
 
The hydralazine component of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate can produce a clinical picture consistent with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Patients who have 'slow acetylation,' as well as patients with renal disease that causes decreased renal function, are more likely to develop a lupus-like syndrome than are fast acetylators (see Adverse Reactions). Considerations should be made to modify dosages in patients with severe renal impairment or renal failure. If hydralazine-induced SLE is suspected and the patient is exhibiting symptomatology consistent with the syndrome (i.e., arthralgia, fever, chest pain, prolonged malaise) a complete blood count and antinuclear antibody titer determination should be performed. A positive antinuclear titer should prompt a practitioner to consider discontinuation of the drug. Following discontinuation, symptoms should regress; however, there are reports of persistence many years later and chronic steroid therapy may be necessary in these individuals. It is difficult to provide guidelines regarding administration of hydralazine to patients with preexisting systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Although hydralazine has been administered safely to these patients, with no exacerbation of the underlying disease, and the mechanism of hydralazine-induced lupus syndrome appears to be distinct from idiopathic lupus, hydralazine should nevertheless be used cautiously in this population.
 
Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate should be used with caution in patients with preexisting hypotension, particularly orthostatic hypotension, or in patients with hypovolemia (or dehydration), because the drug can worsen hypotension, cause syncope and/or reflex tachycardia, and/or produce chest pain. Severe idiosyncratic reactions have occurred with nitrates that have rarely resulted in fatalities.
 
Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate can induce significant drowsiness, impaired cognition or asthenia, particularly during the initiation of treatment. Patients should use caution when driving or operating machinery until they are aware of the effects of the medication.
 
Extreme caution should be taken when prescribing hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate to patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) because reflex tachycardia increases myocardial oxygen demand and can aggravate angina and ischemia. Administration of hydralazine to these patients has been reported to precipitate acute myocardial infarction. Careful clinical and hemodynamic monitoring are warranted in these patients when hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate is administered. Nitrates may also worsen angina in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
 
The pharmacokinetics of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate, alone or in combination, have not been accurately studied in elderly patients. Therefore, it is difficult to determine if these patients will respond differently to the combination product. In general, the initial dose of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate for an elderly patient should start at the low end of the adult dosing range, with subsequent dosage adjustment based on clinical response. The elderly are at higher risk of falling due to syncope at therapeutic doses of nitrates. Elderly patients may have reduced baroceptor function; severe orthostatic hypotension may occur when vasodilators such as nitrates are administered.
 
Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate should not be used in patients with increased intracranial pressure (i.e., recent head trauma or intracranial bleeding) because the drug's vasodilatory effects on the meningeal blood vessels can exacerbate these conditions.
 
Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate should not be used in patients with closed-angle glaucoma due to the risk of drug-induced increased intraocular pressure in patients receiving nitrates.
 
Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate should not be used in patients with severe anemia because the isosorbide dinitrate causes oxidation of hemoglobin to methemoglobin, which could exacerbate this condition.
 
Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate should not be used in patients with hyperthyroidism.
 
Because isosorbide dinitrate concentrations increase in patients with cirrhosis, hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate should be used cautiously in patients with hepatic disease. The metabolism of the drug can be impaired in these patients and accumulation may result in an increased risk of methemoglobinemia.
 
Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C. There are no studies of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate in pregnant women. Hydralazine has been administered to pregnant women with severe hypertension (including preeclampsia). When compared to other antihypertensive agents, hydralazine is associated with significantly more maternal hypotension, placental abruption, cesarian sections, oliguria, adverse effects on fetal heart rate, in addition to lower Apgar scores. At doses of 12 times the maximum recommended human dose of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate, isosorbide dinitrate causes a dose-related increase in embryotoxicity. Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate should only be used in pregnant women if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus and if no other acceptable treatment options are available.
 
Hydralazine is excreted into breast milk; however the American Academy of Pediatrics considers hydralazine to be compatible with breast-feeding. However, it is not known whether or not isosorbide dinitrate is excreted into human milk. Therefore, caution should be exercised when hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate is administered to a woman who is breast-feeding her child.
 
The safety and effectiveness of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate have not been established in children.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate is absolutely contraindicated in patients who have known nitrate hypersensitivity. Specific precautions should be taken appropriate to each component of this product.
    Headline
    diarrhea, hyponatremia, hypotension, hypovolemia, vomiting
    General Information
    Use hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate with caution in individuals with preexisting hypotension, hyponatremia (i.e., salt depletion), or hypovolemia due to the risk of precipitating or exacerbating hypotension. Individuals with inadequate fluid intake or excessive fluid loss due to vomiting, diarrhea, or perspiration may have a higher risk of developing hypotension. Isosorbide dinitrate-induced hypotension may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate therapy.
    Headline
    females, HLA-DR4-positive, NAT2 slow acetylator, White patients
    General Information
    Hydralazine may produce a drug-induced lupus-like syndrome, including glomerulonephritis (i.e., drug-induced lupus nephritis), and systemic vasculitis. Females, White patients, older individuals, and people receiving high daily doses of hydralazine or therapy for more than 3 months are at higher risk of developing hydralazine-induced lupus. Individuals who are a NAT2 slow acetylator or are HLA-DR4-positive are also at an increased risk of hydralazine-induced lupus. If symptoms develop, discontinue hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate unless benefits of continued therapy outweigh the risks to the individual. Symptoms usually regress following hydralazine discontinuation; however, residual symptoms have been detected in some individuals many years later. Complete blood counts and antinuclear antibody titer determinations are indicated before and periodically during prolonged therapy, even if the individual does not have any symptoms; these tests are also indicated if an individual develops arthralgia, fever, chest pain, continued malaise, or other unexplained symptoms.
    Headline
    aortic stenosis, coronary artery disease, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, myocardial infarction
    General Information
    Use hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate with caution in individuals with coronary artery disease or hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy. Hydralazine has been implicated in causing angina and myocardial infarction secondary to reflex sympathetic nervous system stimulation (i.e., reflex tachycardia); therefore, use hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate with caution in individuals with coronary artery disease (CAD) and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy as reflex tachycardia increases myocardial oxygen demand, which may aggravate angina and ischemia and precipitate acute myocardial infarction. Nitrate therapy may aggravate angina in individuals with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy. Vasodilators, such as isosorbide dinitrate, may exacerbate or worsen left ventricular outflow obstruction in individuals with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy or aortic stenosis. Isosorbide dinitrate is not recommended in individuals with a right ventricular myocardial infarction.
    Headline
    head trauma, increased intracranial pressure, intracranial bleeding
    General Information
    Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate should not be used in individuals with increased intracranial pressure (e.g., recent head trauma or intracranial bleeding due to cerebral vasodilation.
    Headline
    closed-angle glaucoma
    General Information
    Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate should be avoided in individuals with closed-angle glaucoma due to the risk of drug-induced increased intraocular pressure.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Greater sensitivity to the usual dosage of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate may occur in some older adults and care should be taken in initial dose selection for geriatric adults. In general, initial doses should be to reflect greater frequency of decreased hepatic or renal function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Isosorbide dinitrate, its active metabolite, and hydralazine, may be eliminated more slowly in elderly individuals. Additionally, elderly adults have a higher risk of hypotension, including orthostatic hypotension, particularly in the presence of hypovolemia, which may increase fall risk.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the use of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate during human pregnancy to assess a drug-associated risk of major birth defects or miscarriage with first trimester use. Available data on hydralazine use during the second and third trimesters have not shown an association with adverse pregnancy-related outcomes. Hydralazine-related teratogenic effects were seen in mice and possibly rabbits that received doses 2 to 3 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate, based on body surface area. A dose-related increase in embryotoxicity (excess mummified pups) has been found in rabbits that received isosorbide dinitrate at doses of 12 times the MRHD of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate. Heart failure is associated with an increased risk of preterm birth, and worsening of heart disease during pregnancy may lead to death and stillbirth.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of isosorbide dinitrate in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Hydralazine is present in human milk in clinically insignificant amounts, with a relative infant dose of 1.2%.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the use of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate during human pregnancy to assess a drug-associated risk of major birth defects or miscarriage with first trimester use. Available data on hydralazine use during the second and third trimesters have not shown an association with adverse pregnancy-related outcomes. Hydralazine-related teratogenic effects were seen in mice and possibly rabbits that received doses 2 to 3 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate, based on body surface area. A dose-related increase in embryotoxicity (excess mummified pups) has been found in rabbits that received isosorbide dinitrate at doses of 12 times the MRHD of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate. Heart failure is associated with an increased risk of preterm birth, and worsening of heart disease during pregnancy may lead to death and stillbirth.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of isosorbide dinitrate in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Hydralazine is present in human milk in clinically insignificant amounts, with a relative infant dose of 1.2%.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Nitrates can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as diuretics.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) The manufacturer of alfuzosin warns that concurrent use with nitrates has the potential to cause hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, or syncope. Caution is advisable when coadministering alfuzosin and a nitrate to patients with symptomatic hypotension or those who have had a previous hypotensive response to either agent.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of vasodilators on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of vasodilators on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Alosetron: (Minor) Alosetron may inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by N-acetyltransferase, such as hydralazine, however, this interaction has not been studied.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as the vasodilators, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving antihypertensive agents should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. If possible, patients should not take their antihypertensive medication 24 hours before receiving amifostine. Patients who can not stop their antihypertensive agents should not receive amifostine or be closely monitored during the infusion and, possibly, given lower doses.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Apomorphine: (Major) Coadministration of apomorphine and nitrates can cause large decreases in blood pressure. The effect is especially of concern with use of sublingual nitroglycerin products. Instruct patients to lie down before taking a sublingual nitroglycerin dose and to remain supine for at least 45 minutes after to reduce orthostatic risk. In one evaluation, the largest mean decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin were 14.3 mmHg and 13.5 mmHg, respectively. The largest recorded decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressures were 65 mmHg and 43 mmHg during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin together. (Moderate) Concurrent use of apomorphine and vasodilators can cause greater decreases in blood pressure than use of apomorphine alone. Patients receiving a combination of apomorphine and vasodilators should be closely monitored for hypotension and orthostasis.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
ARIPiprazole: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Avanafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Benzalkonium Chloride; Benzocaine: (Moderate) Rare and sometimes fatal cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported with the use of topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Nitrates may also induce methemoglobin formation that will be additive to that formed by benzocaine products. Therefore, caution is warranted when combining nitrate medications with topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Patients using OTC benzocaine gels and liquids should be advised to seek immediate medical attention if signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia develop. In addition, clinicians should closely monitor patients for the development of methemoglobinemia when benzocaine sprays are used during a procedure.
Benzocaine: (Moderate) Rare and sometimes fatal cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported with the use of topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Nitrates may also induce methemoglobin formation that will be additive to that formed by benzocaine products. Therefore, caution is warranted when combining nitrate medications with topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Patients using OTC benzocaine gels and liquids should be advised to seek immediate medical attention if signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia develop. In addition, clinicians should closely monitor patients for the development of methemoglobinemia when benzocaine sprays are used during a procedure.
Benzocaine; Butamben; Tetracaine: (Moderate) Rare and sometimes fatal cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported with the use of topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Nitrates may also induce methemoglobin formation that will be additive to that formed by benzocaine products. Therefore, caution is warranted when combining nitrate medications with topical or oromucosal benzocaine products. Patients using OTC benzocaine gels and liquids should be advised to seek immediate medical attention if signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia develop. In addition, clinicians should closely monitor patients for the development of methemoglobinemia when benzocaine sprays are used during a procedure.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension (including orthostatic hypotension) was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients; most events were mild to moderate in severity, with more dramatic hypotension reported in 4 percent of drug recipients. Additionally, bortezomib and hydralazine can both cause peripheral neuropathy; coadminister these drugs cautiously, as the risk of peripheral neuropathy may be additive.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including hydralazine. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure. (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with drugs that can lower blood pressure, including systemic nitrates. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Captopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Moderate) Nitrates can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as diuretics.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant central-acting adrenergic agent and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of chloroprocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue chloroprocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant central-acting adrenergic agent and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant co-enzyme Q10 (ubiquinone) and hydralazine use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Coadministration of dapsone with nitrates may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Advise patients to discontinue treatment and seek immediate medical attention with any signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of dexmedetomidine and vasodilators could lead to additive hypotension and bradycardia; use together with caution. In clinical trials where vasodilators were co-administered with dexmedetomidine an additive pharmacodynamic effect was not observed. However, both vasodilators and dexmeditomidine may cause symptomatic hypotension. If hypotension occurs, dose reduction of one or both drugs may be needed and supportive measures instituted.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dihydroergotamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant duloxetine and hydralazine use. Concomitant use increases the risk for hypotension, including orthostatic hypotension and syncope. Consider reducing the duloxetine dose or discontinuing duloxetine if symptomatic orthostatic hypotension, falls, or syncope occur during treatment.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Further reductions in blood pressure may occur when vasodilators are combined with epoprostenol. (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ergotamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Estrogens: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant central-acting adrenergic agent and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) In general, haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) may potentially interact with nitrates. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with known cardiovascular conditions should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with vasodilators may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Use sodium phosphates cautiously with hydralazine as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) Use sodium phosphates cautiously with hydralazine as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Vasodilators may have additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) potentiate the concentration of catecholamines in the CNS. These effects can be additive with those of hydralazine, so caution should be used when administering these drugs together. Rasagiline is a selective MAO-B inhibitor at manufacturer recommended doses; therefore, a serious interaction with hydralazine is expected to be less likely to occur with rasagiline.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant hydralazine and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant hydralazine and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Lofexidine: (Major) Because the central alpha-2 agonist effects of lofexidine can cause hypotension and orthostasis, the drug should be avoided, if possible, in combination with other medications that can decrease blood pressure such as systemic vasodilators. If coadministration is required, blood pressure should be monitored, particularly after dose changes of either agent. Adjustments should be made as clinically indicated.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Losartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Mannitol: (Moderate) Nitrates can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as diuretics.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mepivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue mepivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Nitrates can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as diuretics.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Use sodium phosphates cautiously with hydralazine as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant central-acting adrenergic agent and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in nitrate efficacy if concomitant use with methylergonovine is necessary. Methylergonovine produces vasoconstriction and may interfere with antianginal medications.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially peripheral vasodilators. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise. The interaction is harmless unless niacin augments the hypotensive actions of clonidine.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant hydralazine and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Nitric Oxide: (Moderate) Monitor for methemoglobinemia during concomitant use of nitric oxide and nitric oxide donors, such as nitrates. Concomitant use may increase the risk for this adverse effect.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant hydralazine and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by vasodilators. Also vasodilators can antagonize the effectiveness of oxymetazoline. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension and enhance the orthostatic effects of nitrates. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and nitrates who are susceptible to hypotension. (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and hydralazine who are susceptible to hypotension.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if pexidartinib is coadministered with hydralazine. Avoid concurrent use in patients with increased serum transaminases, total bilirubin, or direct bilirubin (more than ULN) or active liver or biliary tract disease.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant hydralazine and phenelzine use due to the risk for additive hypotension.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Phosphodiesterase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) Use sodium phosphates cautiously with hydralazine as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with hydralazine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of primaquine and nitrates due to the risk for methemoglobinemia. Both primaquine and nitrates are associated with this adverse effect and concomitant use may increase risk.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) potentiate the concentration of catecholamines in the CNS. These effects can be additive with those of hydralazine, so caution should be used when administering these drugs together. Rasagiline is a selective MAO-B inhibitor at manufacturer recommended doses; therefore, a serious interaction with hydralazine is expected to be less likely to occur with rasagiline.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hepatic injury during coadministration of riluzole and hydralazine. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Discontinue riluzole if clinical signs of liver dysfunction are present.
Riociguat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of riociguat and nitrates or nitric oxide donors (e.g., amyl nitrite) is contraindicated due to the risk of hypotension. The blood pressure lowering effect of sublingual nitroglycerin was potentiated when administered 4 and 8 hours after riociguat. Syncope was reported in some patients.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as nitrates, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue ropivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) The administration of estrogens can increase fluid retention, which increases blood pressure, thereby antagonizing the antihypertensive effects of hydralazine.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Sildenafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by concurrent nitrates. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Vasodilators, such as hydralazine, can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects. Monitor patients carefully during times of coadministration.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Use sodium phosphates cautiously with hydralazine as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sympathomimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Tadalafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents or rapid-onset vasodilators, such as nitrates. (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Timolol: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as antihypertensive agents or other peripheral vasodilators. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with any beta-blockers.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Monitor for hypotension during concomitant use of tizanidine and hydralazine. Both medications may lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vasodilators and tranylcypromine due to the risk of additive hypotension. Potential for this interaction persists for up to 10 days after discontinuation of tranylcypromine (or 4 to 5 half-lives after discontinuation of the vasodilator). If a medication-free interval is not feasible, initiate therapy at the lowest appropriate dose and monitor blood pressure closely.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Vardenafil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of phosphodiesterase inhibitors with organic nitrates or nitrites in any dosage formulation is contraindicated. Consistent with their known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, concomitant use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors and nitrates can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial infarction. Deaths have been reported in men who were using sildenafil while taking nitrate or nitrite therapy for angina.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Use sodium phosphates cautiously with hydralazine as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially peripheral vasodilators. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise. The interaction is harmless unless niacin augments the hypotensive actions of clonidine.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the adverse reactions with hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate combination products. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate has been evaluated for safety in 517 heart failure patients in A-HeFT. In this trial, 21% of patients discontinued study medication due to adverse events compared to 12% of the patients receiving placebo. The two most commonly reported adverse events during the A-HeFT trial were headache (50% vs. 21% for combined therapy vs. placebo, respectively) and dizziness (34% vs. 14%). A persistent, throbbing headache commonly occurs following isosorbide dinitrate administration. Nitrate-induced headaches usually diminish quickly. In some clinical trials, patients complaining of headache upon initiation of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate therapy were managed with acetaminophen.Hydralazine is a potent vasodilator and can result in hypotension, reflex sinus tachycardia, peripheral vasodilation, peripheral edema, and fluid retention. Orthostatic hypotension can occur following administration of nitrates, accompanied by feeling of lightheadedness, weakness, and occasionally syncope. Hypersensitivity to nitrates can also occur, resulting in diaphoresis, sinus tachycardia, palpitations, and chest pain (unspecified). Due to the pharmacology of hydralazine, complications of excessive dosage (or overdosage) can include hypotension, sinus tachycardia, angina, myocardial ischemia, and myocardial infarction.Other adverse events reported in A-HeFT with the use of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate, with an incidence of at least 2%, include amblyopia, asthenia, bronchitis, hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, hypotension, nausea/vomiting, palpitations, paresthesia, rhinitis, sinusitis, tachycardia, and ventricular tachycardia. Furthermore, adverse events with a reported incidence of 1% in the A-HeFT trial include alopecia, angioedema, arthralgia, cholecystitis, hypercholesterolemia, malaise, and myalgia. In addition to those listed, several side effects are know to be associated with hydralazine and/or isosorbide dinitrate treatment when used alone or in combination. These include angina, blood dyscrasias (agranulocytosis, anemia, eosinophilia, leukopenia), conjunctivitis, dysuria, flushing, hepatitis, lacrimation, muscle cramps, nasal congestion, paralytic ileus, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, psychosis, purpura, and splenomegaly.Several drugs are implicated in producing lupus-like symptoms. Hydralazine is the most frequent offender in this category. Hydralazine is metabolized by acetylation and the patient's acetylation phenotype will affect plasma concentrations of hydralazine. Patients who are 'slow acetylators' as well as patients with decreased renal function are more likely than fast acetylators to develop lupus-like symptoms. Patients with decreased renal function, patients receiving more than 200 mg/day, and patients with a family history of auto-immune disease, are also more likely to develop this condition. Although some manifestations are similar, drug-induced lupus occurs via a different mechanism than does idiopathic disease. Lupus-like symptoms, manifested by fever, chills, arthralgia, sore throat, myalgia, pericarditis, pleuritis, cutaneous vasculitis (skin blisters), rash (unspecified), pruritus, urticaria, and erythema can occur with hydralazine. Patients should be instructed to report adverse symptoms of joint pain, muscle pain, angina, fever, or continued weakness to their physician. If hydralazine-induced lupus syndrome is suspected, the drug should be discontinued.Although uncommon, hydralazine can cause a glomerulonephritis that is probably immune-mediated. Symptoms associated with glomerulonephritis include azotemia, proteinuria, urinary casts, and hematuria.Hydralazine-induced fluid retention can cause edema and weight gain. These effects usually can be alleviated by concomitant administration of a diuretic.Nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of isosorbide dinitrate can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin, producing methemoglobinemia (cyanosis). If this is suspected methemoglobin levels should be measured by clinical lab work. This condition could be fatal in patients with heart failure due to an already reduced vascular bed-tissue gas exchange. When a diagnosis of methemoglobinemia is determined rapid treatment with methylene blue 1—2 mg/kg IV should is considered the treatment of choice.Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate can induce significant drowsiness, impaired cognition or asthenia, particularly during the initiation of treatment. Patients should use caution when driving or operating machinery until they are aware of the effects of the medication.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: This monograph discusses the adverse reactions with hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate combination products. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.
    Headline
    dizziness, headache
    General Information
    Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate has been evaluated for safety in 517 heart failure patients in A-HeFT. In this trial, 21% of patients discontinued study medication due to adverse events compared to 12% of the patients receiving placebo. The two most commonly reported adverse events during the A-HeFT trial were headache (50% vs. 21% for combined therapy vs. placebo, respectively) and dizziness (32% vs. 14%). A persistent, throbbing headache commonly occurs following isosorbide dinitrate administration. Nitrate-induced headaches usually diminish quickly. In some clinical trials, patients complaining of headache upon initiation of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate therapy were managed with acetaminophen.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    impotence (erectile dysfunction)
    General Information
    Impotence (erectile dysfunction) has been reported during post-market use of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    angina, bradycardia, fluid retention, flushing, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, peripheral edema, peripheral vasodilation, sinus tachycardia, syncope, ventricular tachycardia, weakness, weight gain
    General Information
    Hypotension and ventricular tachycardia were observed in 8% and 4%, respectively, of patients treated with hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate during clinical trials. Although the pharmacologic effect of both hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate is to decrease blood pressure by causing peripheral vasodilation, some drug recipients may experience symptomatic hypotension, even with small doses. Hypotension may be especially severe in patients receiving phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors and thus combined use is contraindicated. Patients who are volume or salt depleted are also at risk for excessive reductions in blood pressure; ensure adequate hydration prior to initiating treatment. Drug-induced hypotension may be associated with reflex sinus tachycardia, paradoxical bradycardia, angina pectoris, myocardial ischemia, and myocardial infarction. Orthostatic hypotension, syncope, and lightheadedness may develop in some individuals. Patients should be instructed to sit or lie down during and immediately after drug administration. Other cardiovascular adverse events associated with the use of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate include flushing, palpitations, weakness, peripheral edema, fluid retention, and weight gain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fluid retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasodilation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    lupus-like symptoms
    General Information
    Hydralazine has been associated with the development of lupus-like symptoms. Individuals at risk for developing lupus-like symptoms include patients with decreased renal function, receiving more than 200 mg/day, a family history of auto-immune disease, or patients who are 'slow acetylators' of hydralazine. Patients should be instructed to report adverse symptoms of joint pain, muscle pain, angina, fever, or continued weakness to their physician. If hydralazine-induced lupus syndrome is suspected, the drug should be discontinued.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lupus-like symptoms
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dysuria
    General Information
    Chromaturia and pulmonary renal syndrome have been identified during post-marketing use of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate. In addition, dysuria has been associated with post-marketing use of hydralazine. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    cyanosis, methemoglobinemia
    General Information
    Nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of isosorbide dinitrate can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin, producing methemoglobinemia (cyanosis). If this is suspected methemoglobin levels should be measured by clinical lab work. This condition could be fatal in patients with heart failure due to an already reduced vascular bed-tissue gas exchange. When a diagnosis of methemoglobinemia is determined rapid treatment with methylene blue 1—2 mg/kg IV should is considered the treatment of choice.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cyanosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      methemoglobinemia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    asthenia, hypoesthesia, impaired cognition, migraine, neuritis, paresthesias
    General Information
    It is theorized that an antipyridoxine effect of hydralazine may cause peripheral neuritis, which is manifested as paresthesias, numbness, and tingling. If such symptoms develop in a hydralazine recipient, consider initiating treatment with pyridoxine. During clinical trials, asthenia (14%) and paresthesias (4%) were reported by patients receiving hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate. Other neurologic adverse events associated with the post-marketing use of hydralazine, isosorbide dinitrate, or the combination product hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate include hypoesthesia, migraine, psychotic reactions and disorientation or impaired cognition. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neuritis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    tinnitus, vertigo
    General Information
    Tinnitus and vertigo have been reported during post-marketing use of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, dysgeusia, ileus, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea (10%) and vomiting (4%) were the most common gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported with the use of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate during clinical trials. During the post-marketing period, cases of abdominal pain, dysgeusia, and constipation have been associated with use of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate, and paralytic ileus has been reported with the use of hydralazine as a single agent.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ileus
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, lacrimation
    General Information
    Amblyopia occurred in 3% of the patients treated with hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate during clinical trials. During post-marketing use of the hydralazine, isosorbide, or the combination product hydralazine; isosorbide, patients have reported experiencing blurred vision, eye edema, lacrimation, and conjunctivitis. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      amblyopia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      lacrimation
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    dyspnea, sinusitis
    General Information
    During clinical trials, 4% of patients treated with hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate developed sinusitis. In addition, cases of dyspnea have been reported during post-marketing use of the drug. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    erythema, hyperhidrosis, pruritus
    General Information
    Post-marketing dermatologic adverse reactions reported with the use of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate include erythema, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, and face edema. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, eosinophilia, purpura, splenomegaly
    General Information
    Blood dyscrasias including agranulocytosis, eosinophilia, purpura and splenomegaly have been reported during the post-marketing use of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      eosinophilia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      splenomegaly
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal adverse reactions reported during post-marketing use of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate include myalgia, chest pain (unspecified), and pain in extremities and face. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hepatitis
    General Information
    Hepatitis has been reported during post-market use of hydralazine. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate, ISDN (BiDil®) represents the first race-based drug therapy to be approved by the FDA. BiDil® is a fixed-dose combination of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate, approved as an adjunct to standard therapy, for the treatment of heart failure in patients self-identified as black. Analyses of previous heart failure trials suggest that black patients have an increased response to hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate combination therapy versus non-black patients. Subsequently, the African-American Heart Failure Trial (A-HeFT) has evaluated a fixed-dose combination of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate to treat African-American patients receiving standard therapy for heart failure (primarily NYHA Class III). The combination therapy, when compared to placebo, reduces the rate of death by 43%, reduces the rate of first hospitalization by 33%, and improves patient-reported functional status. In the A-HeFT trial, patients receiving hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate also received concurrent therapy with ACE inhibitors (69%), angiotensin II receptor blockers (17%), beta-blockers (74%), diuretics (88%), cardiac glycosides (59%), and/or diuretics (88%). Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate (BiDil®) was approved by the FDA on June 23, 2005.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The mechanism of action underlying the beneficial effects of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate in the treatment of heart failure has not been established. Analysis of previous trials has illustrated the clinical benefit of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate as adjunctive therapy to a stable drug regimen for heart failure, especially in the African-American population. It is postulated that vasoreactivity may be impaired in black patients. Furthermore, evidence shows that this ethnic group responds differently than non-black patients to conventional heart failure therapy (e.g., ACE inhibitors). It is theorized that black patients may have lower concentrations of nitric oxide within the coronary and peripheral vasculature. This insufficiency is proposed to be attributable to a reduction of nitric oxide (NO) production, enhanced NO inactivation, or possibly both. Additionally, the vascular response to NO is markedly reduced in black subjects.
 
The combined efficacy of hydralazine plus isosorbide dinitrate has been established by the Vasodilator-Heart Failure Trails (V-HeFT) in the overall population of those studies. This combination has been used in patients with symptomatic heart failure with or without the concomitant use of an ACE inhibitor. The recent re-analysis of the V-HeFT I and II trials has found that hydralazine plus isosorbide dinitrate reduces mortality at a greater significance in black patients when compared to white patients. V-HeFT I reported a statistically significant improvement in exercise tolerance in black patients receiving the hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate combination versus placebo. V-HeFT II demonstrated improved quality of life in black patients receiving combined hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate therapy compared to enalapril. Subsequently, the African-American Heart Failure Trial (A-HeFT) evaluated a fixed-dose combination of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate to treat African-American patients receiving standard therapy for heart failure (primarily NYHA Class III). The combination therapy, when compared to placebo, reduces the rate of death by 43%, reduces the rate of first hospitalization by 33%, and improves patient-reported functional status. In the A-HeFT trial, patients receiving hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate also received concurrent therapy with ACE inhibitors (69%), angiotensin II receptor blockers (17%), beta-blockers (74%), diuretics (88%), cardiac glycosides (59%), and/or diuretics (88%).
 
•Hydralazine: Hydralazine is a selective dilator of arterial smooth muscle. Although stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system is associated with hydralazine administration, this is a compensatory response and not a component of its mechanism. The molecular explanation of hydralazine's mechanism is unclear, but it may be similar to organic nitrates and sodium nitroprusside. In contrast to these agents, however, hydralazine is selective for the arterioles. In addition, animal and limited human data indicate that NO may be generated from hydralazine that also has an antioxidant quality to enhance the effects of nitrates and to mitigate the tolerance associated with chronic nitrate therapy. The antioxidant effect of hydralazine can be attributed to its ability in inhibiting oxidase formation. The accumulation of oxidative free radicals creates an environment where chronic reductions in NO bioavailability contribute to a loss of skeletal muscle microvessels. This effect, in turn, leads to impaired muscle perfusion with elevated metabolic demand. Studies show that treatment with hydralazine markedly inhibits oxidase which plays a role in regulating the bioactivity of NO, produced either endogenously or when administered exogenously.
 
There is also evidence suggesting hydralazine exerts a positive inotropic effect on the failing human ventricle. Cerebral, coronary, splanchnic, and renal blood flow usually increase following administration of hydralazine, while urinary parameters are generally unaffected. Due to fluid retention, plasma volume increases. As a result, tolerance can develop, which may account for the absence of improvement in some patients receiving the drug for prolonged periods of time.
 
•Isosorbide dinitrate: Similar to other nitrites and organic nitrates, isosorbide dinitrate is converted to nitric oxide (NO), a reactive free radical. Nitric oxide is also formed endogenously and is believed to be endothelial-derived growth factor. Among other properties, NO is believed to produce vasodilation. Nitric oxide, the active intermediate compound common to all agents of this class, activates the enzyme guanylate cyclase, thereby stimulating the synthesis of cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP). This second messenger then activates a series of protein kinase-dependent phosphorylations in the smooth muscle cells, eventually resulting in the dephosphorylation of the myosin light chain of the smooth muscle fiber and the subsequent release, or extrusion, of calcium ions. The contractile state of smooth muscle is normally maintained by a phosphorylated myosin light chain (stimulated by an increase in calcium ions). Thus, the nitrite- or nitrate-induced dephosphorylation of the myosin light chain signals the cell to release calcium, thereby relaxing the smooth muscle cells and producing vasodilation.
 
It is believed that nitrates correct myocardial oxygen imbalances by reducing systemic and pulmonary arterial pressure (afterload) and decreasing cardiac output secondary to peripheral dilation rather than coronary artery dilation. Nitrates therefore relax peripheral venous vessels, causing a pooling of venous blood and decreased venous return to the heart, which decreases preload. Nitrates reduce both arterial impedance and venous filling pressures, resulting in a reduction of the left ventricular systolic wall tension, thereby decreasing afterload
 
Nitrates cause a transient reflex compensatory increase in heart rate and myocardial contractility that would normally increase myocardial oxygen consumption, yet the nitrate-induced decrease in ventricular wall tension results in a net decrease in myocardial oxygen demand and amelioration of the pain of angina pectoris. In addition, isosorbide relaxes all other types of smooth muscle including bronchial, biliary, GI, ureteral, and uterine. Nitrites and nitrates are functional antagonists of acetylcholine, norepinephrine, and histamine.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration of hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate, peak plasma concentrations are reached in 1 hour. No information is available in regards to the effects of food on the bioavailability of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate from BiDil tablets.
Hydralazine: Hydralazine is rapidly absorbed via the gastrointestinal tract with approximately 90% of the dose absorbed following oral administration. Oral bioavailability is affected by extensive first-pass metabolism and is dependent on the acetylation phenotype of the patient; approximately 50% in 'slow' acetylators and 30% in 'fast' acetylators. Although food in the gut enhances absorption of hydralazine, food-related reductions in hydralazine blood levels have been associated with reduced antihypertensive effects, possibly due to an increase in intravascular conversion of the drug to hydralazine pyruvic acid hydrazone. For this reason, it has been suggested that patients take this medication at a fixed time in relationship to meals. Hypotensive effects occur 20—30 minutes following an oral dose. The antihypertensive effects of an oral hydralazine dose last about 2—4 hours.
Isosorbide Dinitrate: Orally administered isosorbide dinitrate is absorbed rapidly from the GI tract but undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism, resulting in a bioavailability of 22%. The onset of action of isosorbide begins in 15—40 minutes following drug administration and the duration of effect is 4—6 hours.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The combination product (BiDil) has not been evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment.
Hydralazine: There are no studies determining the effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of hydralazine alone. 
Isosorbide Dinitrate: Concentrations of isosorbide dinitrate do increase in patients with cirrhosis.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Hydralazine: The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of hydralazine has not been determined. A study including 49 hypertensive patients on chronic therapy with hydralazine in daily doses of 25—200 mg, the daily dose of hydralazine in 19 subjects with severely impaired renal function and in 17 subjects with normal renal function was unchanged; suggesting no dosage adjustments necessary for patients with renal impairment. The dialyzability of hydralazine has not been determined. 
Isosorbide Dinitrate: Three studies suggest that renal insufficiency does not have an affect on isosorbide dinitrate pharmacokinetics. Dialysis is not an effective method to remove isosorbide dinitrate or its metabolite from the body.
    Name
    Elderly
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate, alone or in combination, have not been accurately studied in elderly patients. Therefore, it is difficult to determine if these patients will respond differently to the combination product. Previous studies have not shown a discernible difference in clinical response.
  Text
  Hydralazine; isosorbide dinitrate is administered orally. When given in combination, the half-life is 4 and 2 hours for the hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate components, respectively.
Hydralazine: Hydralazine distributes throughout the body tissues and has a particularly high affinity for arterial walls. The drug crosses the placenta and distributes in breast milk, but not to a clinically significant degree. Both the unchanged drug (25%) and its metabolites are excreted in the urine and feces. The half-life of the drug in a normal patient is 3—7 hours.
Isosorbide Dinitrate: Isosorbide dinitrate distributes throughout the body tissues and is metabolized by denitration to isosorbide-2-mononitrate or isosorbide-5-mononitrate, both of which are pharmacologically active and can contribute to the efficacy of isosorbide dinitrate. ISDN is virtually completely metabolized, with minute portions of the parent drug and metabolites excreted renally.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Hydrazlaine; isosorbide dinitrate May be administered without regards to meals. 
No information is available on the effects of food on the bioavailability of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate from BiDil tablets; the oral absorption of hydralazine is enhanced by food, which decreases the first-pass metabolism of hydralazine within the gastrointestinal wall.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    225 mg/day PO hydralazine and 120 mg/day PO isosorbide dinitrate.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    225 mg/day PO hydralazine and 120 mg/day PO isosorbide dinitrate.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; however isosorbide dinitrate concentrations increase in patients with cirrhosis.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears no dosage adjustments are needed.
