=== Doravirine/lamiVUDine/Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5097)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (DF) is indicated as a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 35 kg with no antiretroviral treatment history or as replacement therapy in patients who are virologically suppressed...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1 tablet/day PO (doravirine 100 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg/day).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): pancreatitis, alopecia, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, abnormal dreams, asthenia, depression, dizziness, headache, insomnia, nightmares, suicidal ideation, weakness, anemia, elevated creatine kinase, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, bone fractures, osteomalacia, osteopenia, osteoporosis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Close monitoring, both clinical and laboratory, is recommended for several months after stopping treatment with doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. If appropriate, resumption of anti-hepatitis B treatment may be required.

Brand Names
  - DELSTRIGO

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General Dosing Information
NOTE: HIV guidelines recommend consideration be given to avoiding the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-containing regimens in patients with renal disease and osteoporosis.
 
Initiation of therapy for HIV infection
For adults, initiation of treatment immediately (or as soon as possible) after HIV diagnosis is recommended in all patients to reduce the risk of disease progression and to prevent the transmission of HIV, including perinatal transmission and transmission to sexual partners.
Starting antiretroviral therapy early is particularly important for patients with AIDS-defining conditions, those with acute or recent HIV infection, and individuals who are pregnant; delaying therapy in these subpopulations has been associated with high risks of morbidity, mortality, and HIV transmission.
For patients receiving an HIV diagnosis while hospitalized, it is recommended to initiate treatment during hospitalization whenever possible. Further, ensure a sufficient supply of medication (e.g., at least 2 to 4 weeks) is available to cover until the outpatient clinic appointment.
For elite controllers (i.e., patients who maintain viral loads below the level of quantification for years without treatment), antiretroviral therapy is still recommended. If deferred, closely monitor these patients as some may experience CD4 count decline, loss of viral control, or HIV-related complications.
Prior to initiating treatment, obtain baseline plasma HIV RNA (viral load) and CD4 count; results do not need to be available before starting therapy.
Antiretroviral drug-resistance testing:
Genotypic drug-resistance testing is recommended prior to initiation of therapy in all antiretroviral treatment-naive patients and prior to changing therapy for treatment failure.
Standard genotypic drug-resistance testing in treatment-naive people should focus on testing for mutations in reverse transcriptase (RT) and protease (PR) genes.
Testing for mutations in the integrase gene should also be performed if integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) resistance is a concern (i.e., prior exposure to INSTI for pre-exposure prophylaxis, post-exposure prophylaxis, or treatment).
For patients who previously received long-acting cabotegravir or cabotegravir; rilpivirine, resistance testing (including INSTI genotypic testing) should be conducted regardless of the time since the last dose as INSTI and NNRTI mutations may emerge months after the last dose.
Phenotypic resistance testing may be used in conjunction with the genotypic test for patients with known or suspected complex drug-resistance mutation patterns.
HIV-1 proviral DNA resistance testing is available for use in patients with HIV RNA concentrations below the limits of detection or with low-level viremia (i.e., less than 1,000 copies/mL), where genotypic testing is unlikely to be successful; however, the clinical utility of this assay has not been fully determined.
It is not necessary to delay treatment until resistance test results are available; however, subsequent modifications to the treatment regimen should be made, if needed, once the test results are available.
Pediatric guidelines are also available.
 
Place in therapy for HIV infection
In the following clinical situations, doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a recommended initial regimen for some non-pregnant adults with HIV-1:
to avoid use of an integrase strand transfer inhibitor-base regimen (e.g., suspected or documented INSTI resistance)
to avoid use of a protease inhibitor-based regimen (e.g., significant drug interactions)
Data regarding administration of doravirine during pregnancy is limited; therefore, use of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate as initial therapy in pregnant patients or patients who are trying to conceive is not recommended. However, it may be appropriate to continue use of the drug in some virologically suppressed pregnant patients.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 tablet (doravirine 100 mg; lamivudine 300 mg; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) PO once daily.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents weighing 35 kg or more
        Dosage Description
        1 tablet (doravirine 100 mg; lamivudine 300 mg; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in antiretroviral-naive and certain treatment-experienced patients

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    hepatitis B exacerbation
    General Information
    Patients with HBV and HIV coinfection who discontinue use of lamivudine or tenofovir may experience a severe acute hepatitis B exacerbation, with some cases resulting in hepatic decompensation and hepatic failure. Close monitoring, both clinical and laboratory, is recommended for several months after stopping treatment with doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. If appropriate, resumption of anti-hepatitis B treatment may be required.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is not recommended for use in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 50 mL/minute) or in patients with renal failure. Assess serum creatinine, estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein in all patients before treatment, and as indicated during treatment. Assess serum phosphorus concentrations before and periodically during treatment in patients with chronic kidney disease.
    Headline
    increased risk for osteoporosis, pathologic bone fracture
    General Information
    Consider bone mineral density (BMD) monitoring in drug recipients who have a history of pathologic bone fracture or are at increased risk for osteoporosis, as tenofovir disoproxil fumarate has been associated with reductions in BMD. Also, consider closely monitoring patients who experience bone pain or pain in the extremities, as these may be signs of osteomalacia. Cases of osteomalacia secondary to proximal renal tubulopathy have been associated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate therapy. If bone abnormalities are suspected, appropriate consultation should be obtained. In addition, consider supplementation with calcium and vitamin D for all patients.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    During baseline evaluation of people with HIV, discuss risk reduction measures and the need for status disclosure to sexual or needle-sharing partners, especially with untreated patients who are still at high risk of HIV transmission. Include the importance of adherence to therapy to achieve and maintain a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL. Maintaining a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL, including any measurable value below this threshold, with antiretroviral therapy prevents sexual transmission of HIV to their partners. Patients may recognize this concept as Undetectable = Untransmittable or U=U. Instruct patients to achieve sustained viral suppression (i.e., 2 recorded measurements of plasma viral loads that are below the limits of detection and taken at least 3 months apart) before attempting to conceive a child in order to maximize their health, prevent HIV sexual transmission, and minimize the risk of HIV transmission to the infant once conception occurs. For partners with different HIV status when the person with HIV is on antiretroviral therapy and has achieved sustained viral suppression, sexual intercourse without a condom allows conception without sexual HIV transmission to the person without HIV; expert consultation is recommended. If the partner with HIV has not been able to achieve viral suppression, has an unknown viral suppression status, or has the potential for inconsistent adherence during the periconception period, the use of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) by the partner without HIV is an option to reduce the risk of sexual HIV acquisition.
 
Testing for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection resistance is recommended in all antiretroviral treatment-naive patients at the time of HIV diagnosis, regardless of whether treatment will be initiated. Additionally, perform resistance testing before initiating or changing any HIV treatment regimen. Transmission of drug-resistant HIV strains has been both well documented and associated with suboptimal virologic response to initial antiretroviral therapy. The prevalence of transmitted drug resistance (TDR) in high-income countries ranges from 9% to 14% and varies by country. In most TDR surveys, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) resistance and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) resistance are the most common mutation class types detected, followed by protease inhibitor (PI) and integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) resistance mutations, respectively. Resistance testing at baseline can help optimize treatment and, thus, virologic response. In the absence of therapy, resistant viruses may decline over time to less than the detection limit of standard resistance tests, but may still increase the risk of treatment failure when therapy is eventually initiated. Thus, if therapy is deferred, resistance testing should still be performed during acute HIV infection with the genotypic resistance test result kept in the patient's medical record until it becomes clinically useful. Additionally, because of the possibility of acquisition of another drug-resistant virus before treatment initiation, repeat resistance testing at the time therapy is initiated would be prudent.
 
Perform hepatitis A virus (HAV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) screening in any patient who presents with HIV infection to assure appropriate treatment. If the HBV screening is positive, additional testing for hepatitis D virus (HDV) is recommended. Patients with HIV and HBV/HDV coinfection should be referred to an expert in the management of viral hepatitis. Patients with hepatitis B and HIV coinfection should be started on a fully suppressive antiretroviral (ARV) regimen with activity against both viruses (regardless of CD4 counts and HBV DNA concentrations). HIV treatment guidelines recommend these patients receive an ARV regimen that contains a dual NRTI backbone of tenofovir alafenamide or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with either emtricitabine or lamivudine. Both tenofovir products are active against HBV and can be used as HBV monotherapy. Emtricitabine and lamivudine are also active against HBV; however, they are not recommended for use as monotherapy due to the potential for HBV resistance. Therefore, if tenofovir cannot be used, entecavir should be given in combination with a fully suppressive ARV regimen (NOTE: entecavir should not be considered part of the ARV regimen). Avoid HBV treatment regimens that include adefovir or peginterferon alfa, as these regimens are associated with a higher incidence of toxicities and increased rates of HBV treatment failure. In rare cases, peginterferon alfa can remain a treatment option after consultation with an expert. Most patients with coinfection should continue treatment indefinitely with the goal of maximal HIV suppression and prevention of HBV relapse. If treatment must be discontinued, monitor transaminase concentrations every 6 weeks for the first 3 months, and every 3 to 6 months thereafter. Instruct patients with hepatitis and HIV coinfection to avoid consuming alcohol, and offer vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.
 
HIV treatment guidelines recommend all patients presenting with HIV infection undergo routine screening for hepatitis C virus (HCV). For HCV seronegative individuals who are at continued high risk of acquiring hepatitis C, specifically men who have sex with men (MSM) or persons who inject drugs, additional HCV screening is recommended annually or as indicated by clinical presentation (e.g., unexplained ALT elevation), risk activities, or exposure. Similarly, the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines and the CDC preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP) guidelines recommend HCV serologic testing at baseline and every 12 months for MSM, transgender women, and persons who inject drugs. Use an FDA-approved immunoassay licensed for detection of HCV antibodies (anti-HCV); in settings where acute HCV infection is suspected or in persons with known prior infection that cleared spontaneously or after treatment, use of nucleic acid testing for HCV RNA is recommended. If hepatitis C and HIV coinfection is identified, consider treating both viral infections concurrently. It is recommended to use a fully suppressive antiretroviral therapy and an HCV regimen in all patients with coinfection regardless of CD4 count, as lower CD4 counts do not appear to compromise the efficacy of HCV treatment. In most patients, a simplified pangenotypic HCV regimen (i.e., glecaprevir; pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir; velpatasvir) may be an appropriate choice; however, these regimens are NOT recommended for use in persons with HCV and HIV coinfection who: are treatment-experience with HCV relapse (reinfection after successful therapy is not an exclusion); have decompensated cirrhosis; on a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate containing regimen with eGFR less than 60 mL/minute; on efavirenz, etravirine, nevirapine, or boosted protease inhibitor; have untreated chronic hepatitis B; are pregnant. Patients with HCV and HIV coinfection who meet these exclusion criteria should be treated for HCV following standard approaches as described in the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines. Treatment of HCV infection in children younger than 3 years is not usually recommended; however, treatment should be considered for all children 3 years and older with HCV and HIV coinfection who have no contraindications to treatment. Instruct patients with coinfection to avoid consuming alcohol, limit ingestion of potentially hepatotoxic medications, avoid iron supplementation in the absence of documented iron deficiency, and receive vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.
 
Patients with HIV who must undergo a solid organ transplant or allogeneic stem cell transplant should be managed by a multidisciplinary team before, during, and after the transplant to ensure comprehensive care. Prior to the transplant, ensure viral suppression is obtained, and the patient is up-to-date on their vaccinations. Review the patient's antiretroviral history, prior drug resistance results, adherence history, and the potential for drug interactions. Bictegravir- or dolutegravir-based regimens are preferred in most patients needing a transplant. Consider using tenofovir alafenamide over tenofovir disoproxil fumarate due to the lower risk of affecting renal function and bone mineral density. In general, avoid use of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, cobicistat, protease inhibitors) or CYP3A4 inducing non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (efavirenz, nevirapine, etravirine). If a change in the antiretroviral regimen is necessary, the switch should be completed several weeks before the transplant whenever possible. Renal and hepatic function may fluctuate immediately post-transplant; thus, close monitoring is recommended to ensure appropriate dosing and to avoid potential drug toxicities. Additionally, therapeutic drug monitoring of the immunosuppressive medications should be performed to guide dose adjustments. Make every effort to avoid post-transplant interruption of antiretroviral therapy. If an interruption is necessary, stop all components of the regimen simultaneously and restart treatment as soon as possible.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Provide evidence-based, patient-centered counseling to support shared decision-making regarding infant feeding. Inform individuals that use of replacement feeding (i.e., formula or banked pasteurized donor human milk) eliminates the risk of HIV transmission. It is recommended to use replacement feeding for infants and children of lactating people with HIV who are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) or do not have suppressed viral load during pregnancy and/or at delivery. For those on ART who have achieved and maintained viral suppression during pregnancy (at minimum throughout the third trimester) and postpartum, the transmission risk from breast-feeding is less than 1%, but not zero. Virologically suppressed patients who choose to breast-feed should be supported in this decision. If breast-feeding is chosen, provide counseling about the importance of adherence to therapy and recommend that the infant be exclusively breast-fed for up to 6 months of age, as exclusive breast-feeding has been associated with a lower rate of HIV transmission as compared to mixed feeding (i.e., breast milk and formula). If a viral load is subsequently detected in a breast-feeding person, it is recommended to discontinue or temporarily stop breast-feeding while the viral load is rechecked, causes of viremia are assessed, adherence counseling is reinforced, and the breast-fed infant undergoes HIV nucleic acid testing (NAT). If the repeated viral load is undetectable, a shared decision should be made regarding resumption of breast-feeding. If the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is 200 copies/mL or more, most experts recommend permanent discontinuation of breast-feeding and initiation of a 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. ART(a 1- or 3-drug regimen) for the infant may also be considered if the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is quantifiable but less than 200 copies/mL; consult an expert for guidance. For breast-feeding individuals who receive a new HIV diagnosis while breast-feeding (acute HIV), it is recommended to immediately transition from breast-feeding to replacement feeding, perform an infant HIV NAT, and initiate 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. Promptly identify and treat mastitis, thrush, and cracked or bleeding nipples, as these conditions may increase the risk of HIV transmission through breast-feeding. Breast-fed infants should undergo immediate diagnostic and virologic HIV testing. Testing should continue throughout breast-feeding and up to 6 months after cessation of breast-feeding. For expert consultation, care teams may contact the Perinatal HIV Hotline (888-448-8765). It is unknown if doravirine is present in human milk; however, both lamivudine and tenofovir have been shown to pass into human milk. Lamivudine was found to be secreted in human breast milk during a study involving 20 breast-feeding women with HIV who were administered either 300 mg of lamivudine twice daily as a single agent (n = 10) or lamivudine 150 mg twice daily in combination with zidovudine (n = 10). The mean breast milk concentrations of lamivudine in the respective groups were similar at 1.22 mg/L (range less than 0.5 to 6.09 mg/L) and 0.9 mg/L (range less than 0.5 to 8.2 mg/L). In another study, tenofovir exposure in exclusively breast-fed infants was found to be equivalent to approximately 4.2 micrograms per day. Other antiretroviral medications whose passage into human breast milk have been evaluated include efavirenz, nevirapine, zidovudine, lamivudine, and nelfinavir.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. There are insufficient data to recommend the use of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (DF) in pregnant patients or patients who are trying to become pregnant. However, for virologically suppressed patients who become pregnant while receiving doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir DF, consider whether to change to an alternative treatment option or continue the same regimen. If the decision is made with the patient to continue, viral loads should be monitored more frequently (i.e., every 1 to 2 months). The Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR) has prospectively monitored 24 patients treated with doravirine during the first trimester and 6 patients treated during the second and third trimesters. Two infants with first trimester exposure were noted to have a birth defect. This information is insufficient to make conclusions regarding the safety of doravirine during pregnancy. Other data from the APR, which includes 5,833 first trimester exposures to lamivudine and 5,221 first trimester exposures to tenofovir DF, have shown no difference in the risk of overall major birth defects when compared to the 2.7% background rate among pregnant women in the US. When exposure occurred in the first trimester, prevalence of defects was 3% (95% CI: 2.6 to 3.5) for lamivudine and 2.6% (95% CI: 2.2 to 3.1) for tenofovir DF. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA levels above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. There are insufficient data to recommend the use of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (DF) in pregnant patients or patients who are trying to become pregnant. However, for virologically suppressed patients who become pregnant while receiving doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir DF, consider whether to change to an alternative treatment option or continue the same regimen. If the decision is made with the patient to continue, viral loads should be monitored more frequently (i.e., every 1 to 2 months). The Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR) has prospectively monitored 24 patients treated with doravirine during the first trimester and 6 patients treated during the second and third trimesters. Two infants with first trimester exposure were noted to have a birth defect. This information is insufficient to make conclusions regarding the safety of doravirine during pregnancy. Other data from the APR, which includes 5,833 first trimester exposures to lamivudine and 5,221 first trimester exposures to tenofovir DF, have shown no difference in the risk of overall major birth defects when compared to the 2.7% background rate among pregnant women in the US. When exposure occurred in the first trimester, prevalence of defects was 3% (95% CI: 2.6 to 3.5) for lamivudine and 2.6% (95% CI: 2.2 to 3.1) for tenofovir DF. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA levels above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Provide evidence-based, patient-centered counseling to support shared decision-making regarding infant feeding. Inform individuals that use of replacement feeding (i.e., formula or banked pasteurized donor human milk) eliminates the risk of HIV transmission. It is recommended to use replacement feeding for infants and children of lactating people with HIV who are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) or do not have suppressed viral load during pregnancy and/or at delivery. For those on ART who have achieved and maintained viral suppression during pregnancy (at minimum throughout the third trimester) and postpartum, the transmission risk from breast-feeding is less than 1%, but not zero. Virologically suppressed patients who choose to breast-feed should be supported in this decision. If breast-feeding is chosen, provide counseling about the importance of adherence to therapy and recommend that the infant be exclusively breast-fed for up to 6 months of age, as exclusive breast-feeding has been associated with a lower rate of HIV transmission as compared to mixed feeding (i.e., breast milk and formula). If a viral load is subsequently detected in a breast-feeding person, it is recommended to discontinue or temporarily stop breast-feeding while the viral load is rechecked, causes of viremia are assessed, adherence counseling is reinforced, and the breast-fed infant undergoes HIV nucleic acid testing (NAT). If the repeated viral load is undetectable, a shared decision should be made regarding resumption of breast-feeding. If the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is 200 copies/mL or more, most experts recommend permanent discontinuation of breast-feeding and initiation of a 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. ART(a 1- or 3-drug regimen) for the infant may also be considered if the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is quantifiable but less than 200 copies/mL; consult an expert for guidance. For breast-feeding individuals who receive a new HIV diagnosis while breast-feeding (acute HIV), it is recommended to immediately transition from breast-feeding to replacement feeding, perform an infant HIV NAT, and initiate 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. Promptly identify and treat mastitis, thrush, and cracked or bleeding nipples, as these conditions may increase the risk of HIV transmission through breast-feeding. Breast-fed infants should undergo immediate diagnostic and virologic HIV testing. Testing should continue throughout breast-feeding and up to 6 months after cessation of breast-feeding. For expert consultation, care teams may contact the Perinatal HIV Hotline (888-448-8765). It is unknown if doravirine is present in human milk; however, both lamivudine and tenofovir have been shown to pass into human milk. Lamivudine was found to be secreted in human breast milk during a study involving 20 breast-feeding women with HIV who were administered either 300 mg of lamivudine twice daily as a single agent (n = 10) or lamivudine 150 mg twice daily in combination with zidovudine (n = 10). The mean breast milk concentrations of lamivudine in the respective groups were similar at 1.22 mg/L (range less than 0.5 to 6.09 mg/L) and 0.9 mg/L (range less than 0.5 to 8.2 mg/L). In another study, tenofovir exposure in exclusively breast-fed infants was found to be equivalent to approximately 4.2 micrograms per day. Other antiretroviral medications whose passage into human breast milk have been evaluated include efavirenz, nevirapine, zidovudine, lamivudine, and nelfinavir.

Interactions
Abrocitinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with abrocitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acalabrutinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and tenofovir disoproxil fumerate may increase may increase the absorption and plasma concentration of tenofovir disoproxil fumerate. Monitor patients for tenofovir-related adverse reactions and discontinue use in patients who experience an adverse reaction. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Tenofovir disoproxil fumerate is a BCRP substrate.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Monitor for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus if tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is administered in combination with nephrotoxic agents, such as acyclovir. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration with drugs that decrease renal function may increase concentrations of tenofovir. In addition, use with drugs that are also eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of the co-administered drug. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate; a majority of the cases occurred in patients who had underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with adagrasib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and adagrasib is a P-gp inhibitor. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and adagrasib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; adagrasib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Adefovir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with adefovir. Both tenofovir and adefovir are primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration may increase concentrations of both drugs resulting in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, tenofovir should not be administered in combination with adefovir to avoid multi-drug resistance. If coadministration is necessary, patients should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein. (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Aldesleukin, IL-2: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tenofovir disoproxil and aldesleukin; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Amikacin: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Aminoglycosides: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with amiodarone may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and clarithromycin may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Minor) Additive nephrotoxicity can also occur if amphotericin B is given concomitantly with tenofovir. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Minor) Additive nephrotoxicity can also occur if amphotericin B is given concomitantly with tenofovir. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Amphotericin B: (Minor) Additive nephrotoxicity can also occur if amphotericin B is given concomitantly with tenofovir. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Apalutamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and apalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Armodafinil: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and armodafinil may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with asciminib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Tenofovir decreases atazanavir AUC and Cmin. If atazanavir and tenofovir, PMPA are to be coadministered, it is recommended that atazanavir 300 mg be given with ritonavir 100 mg and tenofovir 300 mg once per day with food in patients >= 40 kg; atazanavir should not be coadministered with tenofovir without ritonavir. Data are insufficient to recommend atazanavir dosing in children = 40 kg receiving H2-antagonists and tenofovir, atazanavir should be dosed 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and atazanavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Tenofovir decreases atazanavir AUC and Cmin. If atazanavir and tenofovir, PMPA are to be coadministered, it is recommended that atazanavir 300 mg be given with ritonavir 100 mg and tenofovir 300 mg once per day with food in patients >= 40 kg; atazanavir should not be coadministered with tenofovir without ritonavir. Data are insufficient to recommend atazanavir dosing in children = 40 kg receiving H2-antagonists and tenofovir, atazanavir should be dosed 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and atazanavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Atidarsagene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Azithromycin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with azithromycin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Bacitracin: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as bacitracin. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with belumosudil may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and belzutifan may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; belzutifan is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Betibeglogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Bexarotene: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and bexarotene may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Bortezomib: (Minor) Monitor patients for the development of peripheral neuropathy when receiving bortezomib in combination with other drugs that can cause peripheral neuropathy like lamivudine; the risk of peripheral neuropathy may be additive.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and bosentan may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with brigatinib is necessary. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP. Brigatinib inhibits both P-gp and BCRP in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of substrates of these transporters. (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and brigatinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; brigatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with cannabidiol may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with capmatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of carbamazepine and doravirine is contraindicated due to the potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance to doravirine or the class of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs). If doravirine use is necessary, discontinue carbamazepine at least 4-weeks prior to initiation. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a potent CYP3A4 inducer.
CARBOplatin: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as carboplatin. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Increased concentrations of tenofovir may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and tenofovir is a P-gp substrate.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and cenobamate may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ceritinib: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in doravirine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ceritinib is necessary; increased doravirine plasma concentrations may occur. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ceritinib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Chloramphenicol: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and chloramphenicol may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; chloramphenicol is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Cidofovir: (Moderate) Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as cidofovir. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor for changes in renal function. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration with a drug that reduces renal function or competes for active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and other renally eliminated drugs; thus, increasing the risk of developing renal-related adverse events. Renal impairment, which may include acute renal failure and hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
CISplatin: (Major) Avoid tenofovir administration with concurrent or recent treatment with cisplatin. Cisplatin can cause nephrotoxicity. Tenofovir is primarily eliminated by the kidneys; drugs that decrease renal function may increase concentrations of tenofovir. Also, cases of acute renal failure after initiation of other nephrotoxic drugs have been reported in HIV-infected patients with risk factors for renal dysfunction who appeared stable on tenofovir treatment; some patients required hospitalization and renal replacement therapy.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and clarithromycin may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir and clindamycin may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
cloBAZam: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and clobazam may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clobazam is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Clofarabine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of clofarabine and tenofovir; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, taking these drugs together may alter clofarabine concentrations; clofarabine and tenofovir are both substrates of OAT1 and OAT3.
Cobicistat: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as colistimethate sodium. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein.
Colistin: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as colistimethate sodium. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Use caution when administering conivaptan and tenofovir concurrently. Conivaptan is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Co-administration of conivaptan with P-gp substrates, such as tenofovir, PMPA, can increase tenofovir exposure leading to increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, such as cyclosporine, should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Dabrafenib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and dabrafenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Danicopan: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with danicopan may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and danicopan is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Daraxonrasib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with daraxonrasib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and daraxonrasib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with daridorexant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and daridorexant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Darolutamide: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of darolutamide and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate due to the potential for increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate increasing the risk of adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) and darolutamide is a BCRP inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC, Cmax, Cmin) of tenofovir, PMPA are elevated when administered in combination with darunavir and ritonavir. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, and dosage adjustments are not recommended. Monitor the patients closely for tenofovir-related adverse events. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and darunavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC, Cmax, Cmin) of tenofovir, PMPA are elevated when administered in combination with darunavir and ritonavir. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, and dosage adjustments are not recommended. Monitor the patients closely for tenofovir-related adverse events. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and darunavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine. (Moderate) Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC, Cmax, Cmin) of tenofovir, PMPA are elevated when administered in combination with darunavir and ritonavir. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, and dosage adjustments are not recommended. Monitor the patients closely for tenofovir-related adverse events. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and darunavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Deferasirox: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and deferasirox may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; deferasirox is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in doravirine efficacy during concurrent use of doravirine and dexamethasone. If long term coadministration is required, consider using an alternative corticosteroid, such as prednisone or prednisolone. Concomitant use may decrease doravirine exposure leading to potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate and dexamethasone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as quinidine. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Dichlorphenamide: (Major) Use of dichlorphenamide and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is not recommended because of increased tenofovir exposure and a risk of tenofovir-related adverse effects. Monitor closely for signs of drug toxicity if coadministration cannot be avoided. For example, it is important to monitor renal and hepatic function for all patients during treatment with tenofovir, as the drug may cause hepatotoxicity or nephrotoxicity. Increased tenofovir exposure is possible. Tenofovir is a sensitive OAT1 substrate. Dichlorphenamide inhibits OAT1.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Dofetilide: (Major) Dofetilide should be co-administered with tenofovir, PMPA with caution since both drugs are actively secreted via cationic secretion and could compete for common renal tubular transport systems. This results in a possible increase in plasma concentrations of either drug. Increased concentrations of dofetilide may increase the risk for side effects including proarrhythmia. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of dofetilide is recommended. (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Efavirenz: (Contraindicated) Concurrent treatment with efavirenz and doravirine is not recommended. Both medications are non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), and using these drugs together would represent duplicate therapy. In addition, taking these drugs together results in decreased doravirine exposure. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent treatment with efavirenz and doravirine is not recommended. Both medications are non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), and using these drugs together would represent duplicate therapy. In addition, taking these drugs together results in decreased doravirine exposure. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer. (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent treatment with efavirenz and doravirine is not recommended. Both medications are non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), and using these drugs together would represent duplicate therapy. In addition, taking these drugs together results in decreased doravirine exposure. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Elacestrant: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with elacestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is substrate of BCRP and P-gp; elacestrant is an inhibitor of BCRP and P-gp.
Elafibranor: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and elafibranor may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and elagolix may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and elagolix may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as ivacaftor. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir, PMPA and eliglustat may result in increased concentrations of tenofovir. Monitor patients closely for tenofovir-related adverse effects including nausea, diarrhea, headache, asthenia, and nephrotoxicity. Tenofovir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; eliglustat is a P-gp inhibitor. For coadministration with P-gp substrates, eliglustat's product labeling recommends monitoring therapeutic drug concentrations of the P-gp substrate, if possible, or consideration of a dosage reduction and titrating to clinical effect.
Elivaldogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Emtricitabine: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with enasidenib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and enasidenib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and enasidenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; enasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Encorafenib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and encorafenib is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with encorafenib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and encorafenib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with ensitrelvir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ensitrelvir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Enzalutamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and enzalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Erdafitinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with erdafitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with erythromycin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and erythromycin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Eslicarbazepine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and eslicarbazepine may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ethiodized Oil: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Etravirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent treatment with etravirine and doravirine is not recommended. Both medications are non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), and using these drugs together would represent duplicate therapy. In addition, taking these drugs together may result in decreased doravirine exposure. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; etravirine is a CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as etravirine. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Etuvetidigene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV), such as etuvetidigene autotemcel. Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization and continue to hold therapy until at least 7 days after etuvetidigene autotemcel infusion; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may decrease etuvetidigene autotemcel efficacy by reducing LVV activity and interfering with gene therapy manufacturing.
Fenofibrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenofibric Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and fexinidazole may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Fosamprenavir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and fosamprenavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; fosamprenavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Foscarnet: (Moderate) Monitor for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus if tenofovir is administered in combination with nephrotoxic agents, such as foscarnet. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. While no drug interactions due to competition for renal excretion have been observed, coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir, and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir; a majority of the cases occurred in patients who had underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Fosphenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and fosphenytoin is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenytoin (the active metabolite of fosphenytoin) is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with fostamatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Ganciclovir: (Moderate) Concurrent use of nephrotoxic agents with ganciclovir should be done cautiously to avoid additive nephrotoxicity. Other nephrotoxic agents include tenofovir.
Gentamicin: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with gilteritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Glycerol Phenylbutyrate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and glycerol phenylbutyrate may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; glycerol phenylbutyrate is a weak CYP3A inducer.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Idelalisib: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and idelalisib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; idelalisib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Imlunestrant: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with imlunestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Interferon Beta-1a: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Interferon Beta-1b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Interferon Gamma-1b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Interferons: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Iodixanol: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Iohexol: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Iomeprol: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Iopamidol: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Iopromide: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Ioversol: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Isosulfan Blue: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp and BCRP, such as itraconazole. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and itraconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; itraconazole is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as ivacaftor. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ketoconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ketoconazole increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and clarithromycin may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lapatinib is necessary. Tenofovir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lapatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir may occur.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with lasmiditan may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lazertinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with lazertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions if ledipasvir is administered with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. In addition, because safety has not been established, avoid use of ledipasvir in combination with HIV regimens that contain tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and HIV protease inhibitors boosted with ritonavir. Consider use of tenofovir alafenamide in place of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. If coadministration is deemed necessary, closely monitor for tenofovir adverse effects. Plasma concentrations of tenofovir may increase when administered with ledipasvir. Tenofovir is a substrate of the drug transporters P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP); ledipasvir is an inhibitor of both P-gp and BCRP.
Leniolisib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with leniolisib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and leniolisib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Lentivirus vector therapy (selected): (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Levacetylleucine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with levacetylleucine may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ketoconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ketoconazole increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with lonafarnib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lonafarnib is a P-gp inhibitor. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and lonafarnib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp and BCRP, such as ritonavir. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ritonavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ritonavir increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant. (Minor) There are varying results in reports of an interaction between tenofovir and lopinavir; ritonavir. In one report, the concurrent administration of tenofovir with lopinavir; ritonavir increased tenofovir Cmax 31%, AUC 34%, and Cmin 29%, with slight (15%) decreases in lopinavir Cmax and AUC; the alterations may be a food effect rather than a drug-drug interaction. In another report, lopinavir; ritonavir (400 mg; 100 mg PO twice daily for 14 days) increased the tenofovir (300 mg/day PO) Cmin 51% and AUC 32%, with no effect seen on lopinavir; ritonavir pharmacokinetics. While the clinical significance of this interaction is unknown, and is suspected to be insignificant, patients receiving lopinavir; ritonavir with tenofovir should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse events.
Lorlatinib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and lorlatinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lovotibeglogene autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as ivacaftor. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with maribavir may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Marnetegragene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Mavacamten: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mavacamten may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mavorixafor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as mefloquine. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Memantine: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Meropenem: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and meropenem may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and meropenem may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Methotrexate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methotrexate with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate due to the risk of additive nephrotoxicity as well as an increased risk of severe methotrexate-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for adverse reactions. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and methotrexate are both nephrotoxic drugs; methotrexate is also renally eliminated. Coadministration of methotrexate with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate may result in decreased renal function as well as increased methotrexate plasma concentrations.
Midostaurin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with midostaurin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
miFEPRIStone: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and chronic mifepristone therapy may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; mifepristone is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant. The clinical significance of CYP450 inhibition with short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mitapivat may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mitapivat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Mitotane: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mitotane is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Mobocertinib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mobocertinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and modafinil may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Momelotinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with momelotinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and momelotinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Nafcillin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and nafcillin may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Nefazodone: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and nefazodone may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; nefazodone is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as nelfinavir. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and nelfinavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; nelfinavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Neratinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with neratinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and neratinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nevirapine: (Major) Coadministration of nevirapine and doravirine is not recommended as the combined use of two NNRTIs has not been shown to be beneficial. Concomitant use may also cause a significant decrease in doravirine plasma concentrations and, thus, a loss of therapeutic effect. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp and BCRP, such as ritonavir. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ritonavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ritonavir increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as radiopaque contrast agents. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Odevixibat: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and odevixibat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; odevixibat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Olutasidenib: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and olutasidenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; olutasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Omaveloxolone: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and omaveloxolone may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Increase the doravirine dose to 100 mg PO twice daily if concomitant use with rifabutin is necessary. Concurrent use decreases doravirine exposure which may increase the risk for loss of virologic control without an appropriate doravirine dosage adjustment. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to reduce doravirine overall exposure by 50%.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with orforglipron may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and orforglipron is a BCRP inhibitor.
Oritavancin: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and oritavancin may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Orlistat: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Osimertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osimertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may result in increased tenofovir absorption. Tenofovir disoproxil is a BCRP and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Osimertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Oteseconazole: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with oteseconazole may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and oteseconazole is a BCRP inhibitor.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of oxaliplatin with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate due to the risk of increased oxaliplatin-related adverse reactions. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is known to be potentially nephrotoxic; because platinum-containing drugs like oxaliplatin are eliminated primarily through the kidney, oxaliplatin clearance may be decreased by coadministration with nephrotoxic agents.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
OXcarbazepine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and oxcarbazepine is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; oxcarbazepine is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pacritinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and pacritinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Pamidronate: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as pamidronate. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Paromomycin: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Peginterferon beta-1a: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and pexidartinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and phenobarbital is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and phenobarbital is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and topiramate may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Phenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and phenytoin is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pirtobrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pirtobrutinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Plazomicin: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Polymyxin B: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as polymyxin B. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as posaconazole. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and posaconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; posaconazole is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Pretomanid: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pretomanid may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with primaquine may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and primaquine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primidone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and primidone is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Probenecid: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as probenecid; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as probenecid; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion such as procainamide may compete with lamivudine for common renal tubular transport systems, thus possibly decreasing the elimination of one of the drugs. Although theoretical, careful patient monitoring of the response to lamivudine and/or procainamide is recommended to individualize dosage. In selected individuals, procainamide serum concentration monitoring may be appropriate.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with propafenone may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and propafenone is a P-gp inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as quinidine. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Quizartinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with quizartinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as ranolazine. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Regorafenib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of regorafenib with tenofovir, PMPA is necessary, and monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions. Tenofovir is a BCRP substrate and regorafenib is a BCRP inhibitor. Regorafenib-mediated BCRP inhibition may increase exposure to tenofovir.
Relacorilant: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and relacorilant may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with remibrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and repotrectinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Resmetirom: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with resmetirom may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and resmetirom is a BCRP inhibitor.
Ribavirin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ribavirin and antiretroviral non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) should be done with caution as both can cause hepatic damage. NNRTIs may cause liver damage in the context of hypersensitivity reactions or by direct toxic effects. Many studies demonstrate that nevirapine is more hepatotoxic than efavirenz. Underlying chronic HCV infection enhances the risk of developing liver enzyme elevations in patients receiving nevirapine. Overall, the HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. (Moderate) Use lamivudine with ribavirin and interferon with caution and closely monitor for hepatic decompensation and anemia. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh greater than 6). Hepatic decompensation (some fatal) has occurred in HCV/HIV coinfected patients who received both ribavirin/interferon and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) therapies. In addition, ribavirin has been shown in cell culture to inhibit phosphorylation of lamivudine, which could lead to decreased antiretroviral activity; however, while ribavirin inhibits the phosphorylation reactions required to activate lamivudine, no evidence of a pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction has been observed.
Ribociclib: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ribociclib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ribociclib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ribociclib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ribociclib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Rifabutin: (Major) Increase the doravirine dose to 100 mg PO twice daily if concomitant use with rifabutin is necessary. Concurrent use decreases doravirine exposure which may increase the risk for loss of virologic control without an appropriate doravirine dosage adjustment. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to reduce doravirine overall exposure by 50%.
rifAMPin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and rifampin is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rifapentine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and rifapentine is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with rilzabrutinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp and BCRP, such as ritonavir. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ritonavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ritonavir increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Rolapitant: (Moderate) Use caution if tenofovir, PMPA and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir is a substrate of the Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), where an increase in exposure may significantly increase adverse effects; rolapitant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. The Cmax and AUC of another BCRP substrate, sulfasalazine, were increased by 140% and 130%, respectively, on day 1 with rolapitant, and by 17% and 32%, respectively, on day 8 after rolapitant administration. When rolapitant was administered with digoxin, a P-gp substrate, the day 1 Cmax and AUC were increased by 70% and 30%, respectively; the Cmax and AUC on day 8 were not studied.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Salicylates: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Salsalate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as saquinavir. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and saquinavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; saquinavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.Coadministration may increase doravirine exposure. Concurrent use of strong inhibitors like saquinavir increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and secobarbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; secobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with selpercatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and selpercatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sevabertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with taurursodiol may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and taurursodiol may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) Monitor patients for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions, such as renal toxicity, in patients receiving regimens containing tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and velpatasvir due to potential increases in tenofovir serum concentrations. When administered concurrently with velpatasvir, the peak concentration (Cmax), systemic exposure (AUC), and the trough concentration (Cmin) of tenofovir increased by 44%, 40%, and 84%, respectively. Tenofovir is a substrate of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) transporters, while velpatasvir inhibits both BCRP and P-gp. Consider use of tenofovir alafenamide in place of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of voxilaprevir with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Taking these medications together may increase tenofovir plasma concentrations, potentially increasing the risk for adverse events. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate for the drug transporter Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP). Voxilaprevir is a BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor patients for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions, such as renal toxicity, in patients receiving regimens containing tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and velpatasvir due to potential increases in tenofovir serum concentrations. When administered concurrently with velpatasvir, the peak concentration (Cmax), systemic exposure (AUC), and the trough concentration (Cmin) of tenofovir increased by 44%, 40%, and 84%, respectively. Tenofovir is a substrate of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) transporters, while velpatasvir inhibits both BCRP and P-gp. Consider use of tenofovir alafenamide in place of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
SORAfenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sorafenib is necessary. Tenofovir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and sorafenib inhibits P-gp in vitro. Sorafenib may increase the concentrations of concomitantly administered drugs that are P-gp substrates.
Sorbitol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lamivudine oral solution and sorbitol if possible due to sorbitol dose-dependent reduction in lamivudine exposure. An all-tablet regimen should be used when possible to avoid a potential interaction with sorbitol. Consider more frequent monitoring of viral load when treating with lamivudine oral solution. In a drug interaction study in 16 healthy adult patients, coadministration of a single 300 mg dose of lamivudine oral solution with sorbitol 3.2 g, 10.2 g, or 13.4 g resulted in dose-dependent decreases of 20%, 39%, and 44% in the AUC24 and 28%, 52%, and 55% in the Cmax of lamivudine.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sotorasib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and sotorasib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and sotorasib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with sparsentan may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and St. John's Wort is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Streptomycin: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as probenecid; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Suzetrigine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and suzetrigine may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, including tacrolimus.
Tafamidis: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of tafamidis and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate due to the potential for increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate increasing the risk of adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate dose adjustment may be needed with coadministration. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) and tafamidis is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tazemetostat: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and tazemetostat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; tazemetostat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Tecovirimat: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and tecovirimat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; tecovirimat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Tedizolid: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with tedizolid may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and tedizolid is a BCRP inhibitor.
Telotristat Ethyl: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and telotristat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; telotristat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may lead to increased concentrations of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
Tepotinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with tepotinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as ivacaftor. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with ticagrelor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and ticagrelor is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of tipranavir and ritonavir with tenofovir, results in decreased tipranavir concentrations. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, and no recommendations for tenofovir dosage adjustments are available. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and tipranavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; tipranavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Tobramycin: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Avoid administering tenofovir, PMPA concurrently with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, such as high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Cases of acute renal failure, some requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy, have been reported after high-dose or multiple NSAIDs were initiated in patients who appeared stable on tenofovir. Consider alternatives to NSAIDs in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. If these drugs must be coadministered, carefully monitor the estimated creatinine creatinine, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein prior to, and periodically during, treatment.
Topiramate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and topiramate may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Tovorafenib: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and tovorafenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with verapamil may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and verapamil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with trofinetide may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with tucatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and tucatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and tucatinib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Vadadustat: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vadadustat may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and vadadustat is a BCRP inhibitor.
valACYclovir: (Moderate) Monitor for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus if tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is administered in combination with nephrotoxic agents, such as valacyclovir. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration with drugs that decrease renal function may increase concentrations of tenofovir. In addition, use with drugs that are also eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of the co-administered drug. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate; a majority of the cases occurred in patients who had underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein.
valGANciclovir: (Minor) Since tenofovir is primarily eliminated by the kidneys, concurrent administration of tenofovir disoproxil with valganciclovir may increase serum concentrations of tenofovir via competition for renal tubular secretion.
Vancomycin: (Moderate) Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as vancomycin. Patients receiving these drugs together should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir; a majority of cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as vemurafenib. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Vepdegestrant: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vepdegestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with verapamil may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and verapamil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vimseltinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vimseltinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and vimseltinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and voclosporin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as clarithromycin. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and clarithromycin may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Vorasidenib: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and vorasidenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Voriconazole: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and voriconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; voriconazole is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with xanomeline may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of tenofovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Zoledronic Acid: (Moderate) Tenofovir-containing products should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as zoledronic acid. Tenofovir is primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of tenofovir with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of tenofovir and/or the co-administered drug. Drugs that decrease renal function may also increase concentrations of tenofovir. Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Monitor patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Zongertinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with zongertinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and zongertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Zonisamide: (Minor) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir disoproxil fumarate concurrently with zonisamide, as coadministration may result in elevated tenofovir plasma concentrations. Inhibitors of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp), such as zonisamide, may increase absorption of tenofovir, a P-gp substrate. If these medications are administered together, monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, pancreatitis
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal (GI) and digestive adverse events have occurred in patients receiving treatment with doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. During clinical trials, 5% of patients reported symptoms of nausea and 4% experienced diarrhea. The majority of these adverse reactions occurred at severity Grade 1 (mild). Cases of pancreatitis, abdominal pain, and increased amylase concentrations have been reported following treatment with other tenofovir-containing regimens.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    alopecia, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria
    General Information
    During clinical trials, 2% of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate recipients developed a rash, defined as generalized rash, erythematous rash, macular rash, maculopapular rash, pruritic rash, and papular rash. The majority of these adverse reactions occurred at severity Grade 1 (mild). Cases of severe skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), have been reported during postmarketing use of doravirine-containing regimens. Additionally, alopecia, pruritus, urticaria, angioedema, and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported following treatment with other lamivudine and tenofovir-containing regimens. Monitor drug recipients closely and start appropriate therapy if needed. If a painful rash with mucosal involvement or a progressive severe rash develops, discontinue use of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and any other medication known to be associated with severe skin reactions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    abnormal dreams, asthenia, depression, dizziness, headache, insomnia, nightmares, suicidal ideation, weakness
    General Information
    Neurologic adverse events were associated with the use of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate during clinical trials. Patient treated with doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate experienced dizziness (7%), abnormal dreams or nightmares (5%), insomnia (4%), headache (4%), and somnolence (3%). The majority of these adverse reactions (97%) were mild to moderate in severity and developed within the first 4 weeks of treatment. When compared to efavirenz-containing regimens, the incidence of dizziness, sleep disturbances, and altered sensorium occurring with doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate were significantly lower [-28.3 (-34.0, -22.5), -13.5 (-19.1, -7.9), and -3.8 (-7.6, -0.3) respectively]. Neuropsychatric adverse events also occurred less frequently with doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate as compared to efavirenz; emtricitabine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. At treatment week 96, the prevalence of neuropsychiatric adverse reactions in doravirine treated patients was 13% (n = 47 of 364) compared to 23% (n = 82 of 364) in the efavirenz treatment group. More severe neuropsychiatric reactions, depression and suicidal ideation (i.e., suicide or self-injury, occurred in 4% of doravirine patients and 7% of efavirenz patients. Weakness and asthenia have been reported following treatment with other lamivudine and tenofovir-containing regimens.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abnormal dreams
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nightmares
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, elevated creatine kinase, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, hyperglycemia, hypokalemia
    General Information
    During clinical trials of antiretroviral-naive patients, up to 4% of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate recipients experienced elevated hepatic enzymes, defined as concentrations at least 2.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Hyperbilirubinemia (greater than 2.5 times ULN) occurred in up to 1% of recipients. In a clinical trial of virologically suppressed patients switched from a stable antiretroviral regimen to doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, ALT and AST elevations greater than 1.25 times ULN occurred in 22% and 16%, respectively. These elevations were generally asymptomatic and not associated with hyperbilirubinemia; however, 1% of recipients experienced ALT or AST elevations exceeding 5 times ULN. Other laboratory abnormalities observed during clinical trials included elevated serum creatinine (more than 1.8 times ULN or at least 1.5 times above baseline; 3%), increased lipase (at least 3 times ULN; 2%), and elevated creatine kinase (at least 10 times ULN; 4%). Hepatitis has also been reported with doravirine-containing regimens during postmarketing surveillance. Cases of anemia (including pure red cell aplasia and anemias progressing on therapy), hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia have been reported with use of other lamivudine and tenofovir-containing regimens.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    During clinical trials, up to 1% of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate recipients developed hypercholesterolemia or hypertriglyceridemia, defined as a fasting cholesterol concentration of 300 mg/dL or more and a fasting triglyceride concentration greater than 500 mg/dL. In addition, less than 1% of doravirine treated patients had fasting LDL concentrations of at least 190 mg/dL. When compared with an efavirenz-containing regimen, the change in LDL concentration from baseline was significantly lower for doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [-10.2 (-13.8, -6.7)].
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    lipodystrophy
    General Information
    While more commonly associated with protease inhibitor therapy, a lipodystrophy syndrome consisting of redistribution or accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, accumulation of facial fat, lipomas, breast enlargement, gynecomastia, and other cushingoid features has been reported in patients receiving long-term highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). The mechanism by which nucleoside analogs may cause body fat changes is not known. It has been suggested that nucleoside analogs may damage the mitochondria of adipocytes. An increased incidence of body fat changes is noted in those patients receiving long-term nucleoside therapy and in female patients. Lipodystrophy has been reported during postmarketing use of other lamivudine-containing regimens.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lipodystrophy
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    bone fractures, osteomalacia, osteopenia, osteoporosis
    General Information
    Greater decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been associated with tenofovir DF relative to comparators in clinical studies. Assessment of BMD is recommended in patients with a history of bone fractures or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss; if bone abnormalities are suspected, appropriate consultation should be obtained.  To minimize the risk of osteopenia and osteoporosis development, monitor calcium and vitamin D concentrations in all patients receiving an antiretroviral regimen containing tenofovir DF. Initiate calcium and vitamin D supplementation for those with calcium or vitamin D deficiency. In a study comparing tenofovir with stavudine (each given in combination with lamivudine and efavirenz) in treatment-naive adult patients, decreases in BMD from baseline were seen at the lumbar spine and hip in both treatment groups. At 144 weeks, percent decreases (mean +/- SD) in BMD from baseline at the lumbar spine were greater in patients receiving tenofovir (-2.2% +/- 3.9) compared with patients receiving stavudine (-1% +/- 4.6); percent decreases from baseline at the hip were similar between both treatment groups (tenofovir, -2.8% +/- 3.5; stavudine -2.4% +/- 4.5). In both groups, the majority of the reduction in BMD occurred in the first 24 to 48 weeks of treatment and was sustained. There was a higher proportion of patients who met a protocol defined value of BMD loss (5% decrease in spine or 7% decrease in hip) in the tenofovir group, 28%, compared to the stavudine group, 21%. In addition, there was a significant increase in levels of biochemical markers of bone metabolism (serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase, serum osteocalcin, serum C-telopeptide, and urinary N-telopeptide) in the tenofovir group relative to the stavudine group, suggesting increase bone turnover. Except for bone-specific alkaline phosphatase, these changes resulted in values that remained within the normal range. At week 144, clinically relevant bone fractures (i.e., excluding finger and toe fractures) were reported in 4 patients in the tenofovir group (1.3%) compared with 6 patients in the stavudine group (2%). Normally, BMD increases rapidly in pediatric patients; however, in studies of tenofovir-treated pediatric patients, bone effects were similar to those noted in adult patients, suggesting increased bone turnover. One study evaluating children aged 2 to 12 years with HIV infection found total body BMD gains in recipients of tenofovir to be lower than the gains observed in patients receiving either stavudine or zidovudine. Additionally, at treatment week 48, 1 tenofovir-treated patient experienced significant (more than 4%) BMD loss in the lumbar spine; significant BMD losses were not observed in the stavudine or zidovudine treatment groups. In another study involving adolescents aged 12 to 17 years, the mean rate of BMD gain was less in the tenofovir-treated patients compared to the placebo group. Six tenofovir treated adolescents and 1 placebo treated adolescent had significant (more than 4%) lumbar spine BMD loss in 48 weeks. A third study involving pediatric patients ages 12 to 17 years with chronic hepatitis B also observed smaller gains in lumbar and total body BMD for those patients receiving tenofovir (+ 5% and + 3%, respectively) compared to the placebo group (+ 8% and + 5%, respectively). After 72 weeks of treatment, significant (more than 4%) lumbar spine BMD losses occurred in 3 tenofovir patients and 2 placebo patients. In all 3 pediatric studies, the skeletal growth height appeared to be unaffected. Osteomalacia has also been reported with tenofovir DF use in postmarketing surveillance, including cases associated with proximal renal tubulopathy. Worsening pain in bones or extremities, bone fractures and/or muscular pain or weakness may also be manifestations of proximal renal tubulopathy; promptly evaluate renal function in patients experiencing these symptoms.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      osteoporosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      osteopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      osteomalacia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bone fractures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    Fanconi syndrome, hypophosphatemia, interstitial nephritis, myopathy, nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure (unspecified), renal tubular necrosis, rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    Renal impairment and renal failure (unspecified), which may include hypophosphatemia, have been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. The majority of the reported cases occurred in patients with underlying systemic or renal disease, or in patients taking nephrotoxic agents. Postmarketing cases of interstitial nephritis (including acute cases), acute renal failure, renal failure, acute renal tubular necrosis, Fanconi syndrome, proximal renal tubulopathy, nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, renal insufficiency, increased creatinine, proteinuria, and polyuria have all been reported in patients receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Adverse events that may occur due to proximal renal tubulopathy include rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia, hypokalemia, muscular weakness, myopathy, and hypophosphatemia; promptly evaluate renal function in patients experiencing these symptoms. Obtain a serum creatinine, estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein in all patients prior to treatment, and as indicated during treatment. Further, monitoring of serum phosphorous concentrations is advised for patients with chronic renal disease. Avoid the use of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (less than 50 mL/minute). Avoid use with or recently after a nephrotoxic agent, including high-dose or multiple non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), as cases of acute renal failure requiring hospitalization and renal replacement therapy have been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      Fanconi syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial nephritis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      myopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      renal tubular necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      nephrogenic diabetes insipidus
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hepatitis B exacerbation
    General Information
    Severe acute hepatitis B exacerbation has been reported in patients coinfected with HIV and the hepatitis B virus (HBV) who have discontinued treatment with lamivudine or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. If use of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is stopped in a coinfected patient, closely monitor hepatic function with both clinical and laboratory follow-up for at least several months. If appropriate, treatment for hepatitis B infection may be warranted. Prior to initiating antiretroviral therapy for the treatment of HIV, it is recommended that all patients be tested for the presence of chronic HBV.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis B exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity, lactic acidosis, steatosis
    General Information
    Lactic acidosis and severe hepatotoxicity, including fatal cases, have been reported with combination antiretroviral therapy which includes both nucleoside and nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Typically, these adverse reactions present with symptoms such as enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) and fatty liver (steatosis), even in the absence of significant elevations in liver transaminases. Suspend doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment in patients who develop clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or hepatotoxicity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatomegaly
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      lactic acidosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      steatosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dyspnea
    General Information
    Dyspnea has been noted during the postmarketing use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    autoimmune disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, immune reconstitution syndrome
    General Information
    Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy. During the initial phase of HIV treatment, patients whose immune system responds to doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate therapy may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), cytomegalovirus (CMV), Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis (TB)), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. In addition, autoimmune disease (including Graves' disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, autoimmune hepatitis, and polymyositis) may also develop; the time to onset is variable and may occur months after treatment initiation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      autoimmune disease
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      Guillain-Barre syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      immune reconstitution syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Patients with peripheral neuropathy receiving doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate can experience exacerbations during therapy due to the lamivudine component. In one case report involving a 57-year-old male with mild neuropathy, treatment with lamivudine was associated with a fatal peripheral neuropathy exacerbation. The patient had received lamivudine 300 mg daily for treatment of hepatitis. After 3 months of treatment, the patient presented with dysphonia and progressive muscle weakness. Later, the patient developed tetraparesis followed by acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation. The patient then went into sudden cardiac arrest. Treatment with lamivudine was stopped, and the neuropathy and respiratory capacity improved; however, the patient ultimately died.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (DF) is indicated as a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 35 kg with no antiretroviral treatment history or as replacement therapy in patients who are virologically suppressed (i.e., HIV-1 RNA less than 50 copies/mL) on a stable antiretroviral regimen, have no history of treatment failure, and have no known resistance-associated substitutions to the drug components. The drug contains 3 medications (doravirine, a nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor [NNRTI]), lamivudine, a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor [NRTI], and tenofovir DF, an acyclic nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor) in a single tablet that is given once daily. Avoid use of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir DF in patients receiving strong CYP3A inducers, as concurrent therapy may result in subtherapeutic concentrations of doravirine, which could impair virologic response. Patients coinfected with HIV-1 and hepatitis B virus (HBV) who have discontinued treatment with lamivudine or tenofovir DF have experienced severe acute exacerbations of HBV. Closely monitor hepatic function in coinfected patients who stop doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir DF. If appropriate, reinitiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Doravirine is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI), lamivudine is a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI), and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor (although sometimes classified with the NRTIs). Combination therapy targets different points in the life cycle of HIV, reducing viral capacity to mutate to drug-resistant strains
 
Doravirine: Doravirine inhibits HIV-1 reverse transcriptase. Unlike NRTIs, it does not compete for binding nor does it require phosphorylation to be active. Doravirine binds directly to a site on reverse transcriptase that is distinct from where NRTIs bind. This binding causes disruption of the enzyme's active site thereby blocking RNA-dependent and DNA-dependent DNA polymerase activities. The 50% maximal inhibitory concentrations (EC50) for wild-type laboratory-adapted strains of HIV-1 is approximately 12 nM. Human cellular DNA polymerase alpha, beta, and mitochondrial gamma are not inhibited by doravirine.
Doravirine-resistant strains have been selected in cell cultures, with observed emergent RT amino acid substitutions being V106A, V106I, V106M, V108I, H221Y, F227C, F227I, F227L, F227V, M230I, L234I, P236L, and Y318F. In clinical trials, 10 of the 24 subjects (42%) in the resistance analysis subset showed doravirine-associated resistance substitutions in RT; which included 1 or more of the following: V90V/G, A98G, V106A, V106I, V106M/T, V108I, E138G, Y188L, H221Y, P225H, P225L, P225P/S, F227C, F227C/R, Y318Y/F, and Y318Y/S. Cross-resistance to efavirenz, etravirine, rilpivirine, and nevirapine is likely after the development of treatment-emergent doravirine resistance.
Avoid the use of doravirine in patients with HIV-2, as HIV-2 is intrinsically resistant to NNRTIs. To identify the HIV strain, The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines for HIV diagnostic testing recommend initial HIV testing using an HIV-1/HIV-2 antigen/antibody combination immunoassay and subsequent testing using an HIV-1/HIV-2 antibody differentiation immunoassay.
 
Lamivudine: Lamivudine inhibits viral reverse transcriptase in both HIV-1 and hepatitis B virus (HBV). When used in combination with doravirine and tenofovir, it is used specifically for its activity against HIV. Lamivudine is a synthetic nucleoside analog of cytosine and is phosphorylated by cellular enzymes to its active 5'-triphosphate metabolite, lamivudine triphosphate. Lamivudine triphosphate inhibits the activity of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase by competing with the deoxycytidine 5'-triphosphate and by being incorporated into nascent viral DNA, resulting in chain termination.
HIV-1 resistance to lamivudine is predominately due to a methionine to valine or isoleucine (M184V/I) substitution in reverse transcriptase. Cross-resistance is expected with abacavir, didanosine, and emtricitabine.
 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: Tenofovir inhibits viral reverse transcriptase in both HIV-1 and HBV. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF) is an acyclic nucleoside phosphonate (nucleotide) diester analog of adenosine monophosphate. Tenofovir DF requires initial diester hydrolysis for conversion to tenofovir. Tenofovir is then taken up by cells and undergoes phosphorylation to form tenofovir diphosphate (PMPApp). Tenofovir diphosphate competes with the natural substrate deoxyadenosine 5'-triphosphate (dATP) for incorporation into the DNA. Once incorporated, tenofovir diphosphate, which lacks a 3' hydroxyl group, causes premature DNA chain termination.
HIV-1 isolates that express a K65R amino acid substitutions in reverse transcriptase show a 2- to 4-fold reduction in the susceptibility to tenofovir. In addition, a K70E substitution in HIV-1 reverse transcriptase has been selected by tenofovir and results in reduced susceptibility. The K70E substitution selected clinically by tenofovir results in reduced susceptibility to abacavir, emtricitabine, and lamivudine. HIV-1 isolates with the K65R substitution also show reduced susceptibility to lamivudine and emtricitabine.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Doravirine: The absolute oral bioavailability of doravirine is 64%, and the time to reach maximum plasma concentrations (Tmax) is 2 hours. Although doravirine may be administered with or without food, administration with a high-fat meal (i.e., 1,000 kcal, 50% fat) increases the exposure ratio by 1.10 (1.01, 1.20) and the 24-hour drug concentration by 1.26 (1.13, 1.41).
Lamivudine: Following oral administration, the absolute bioavailability of lamivudine is approximately 86%. Drug exposure (AUC) and the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) increase in proportion to the dose over a range from 0.25 to 10 mg/kg.
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: The bioavailability in a fasting state is 25%; when given with either a high fat or light meal, tenofovir AUC and Cmax increase by 35% and 15%, respectively.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Doravirine: Mild to moderate hepatic dysfunction (Child-Pugh A and B) does not have a clinically significant effect on doravirine pharmacokinetics. Use of the drug in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) has not been evaluated.
Lamivudine: Lamivudine pharmacokinetic parameters are not altered by diminishing hepatic function. Safety and efficacy of lamivudine have not been established in the presence of decompensated hepatic disease.
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: No substantial pharmacokinetic changes have been noted following tenofovir disoproxil fumarate administration in patients with any degree of hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A, B, or C).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Doravirine: Renal dysfunction was not found to have a clinically relevant effect on doravirine pharmacokinetics; however, use of the drug in patients with end-stage renal disease or patients undergoing dialysis has not been evaluated.
Lamivudine: Lamivudine exposure (AUC), maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), and half-life are significantly increased in patients with severe renal dysfunction (CrCl less than 10 mL/min).
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: The pharmacokinetic parameters of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate are altered in patients with renal impairment. A single dose study involving patients with varying degrees of renal dysfunction found patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/min or with end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis had clinically significant increases in tenofovir exposure (AUC) and maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) when compared to patients with normal renal function.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Mean doravirine exposures were similar in 54 pediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years weighing at least 35 kg who received doravirine or doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir in IMPAACT 2014 (Protocol 027) compared to adults after administration of doravirine or doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir. Exposures of lamivudine and tenofovir in pediatric patients after the administration of doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir were similar to those in adults after administration of lamivudine and tenofovir. For pediatric patients weighing 35 to 44 kg who receive doravirine 100 mg or doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir, the population pharmacokinetic model-predicted mean C24 of doravirine was comparable to that achieved in adults, whereas mean AUC0 to 24 and Cmax of doravirine were 25% and 36% higher than adult values, respectively. However, the predicted AUC0 to 24 and Cmax increases are not considered clinically significant.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Pregnancy
Doravirine: There are no clinical studies evaluating the pharmacokinetics of doravirine in pregnant patients; however, drug exposure during pregnancy was predicted using full-body, physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling. The model predicted lower maternal serum exposure (compared to nonpregnant patients) as pregnancy progresses, with decreases in trough plasma concentrations of 65%, 75%, and 84% at 26, 32, and 40 weeks gestation, respectively.
Lamivudine: Although population pharmacokinetic modeling suggests the oral clearance of lamivudine is increased by 22% during pregnancy, limited data from 2 studies involving 36 pregnant women (16 at 36 weeks, 20 at 38 weeks gestation) found the pharmacokinetic parameters of lamivudine to be similar to those observed in non-pregnant and postpartum adults. No change in dose is indicated. In addition, placental transfer of lamivudine results in drug concentrations that are 2 times greater than maternal serum levels.
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: Pregnancy alters the pharmacokinetic parameters of tenofovir. In 1 study, a 30% increase in the clearance of tenofovir was observed in 34 pregnant women with HIV. In addition, the drug exposure (AUC), peak (Cmax), and trough (Cmin) obtained during the third trimester were 23% (p < 0.001), 19% (p = 0.001) and 21% (p = 0.003) lower, respectively, than those obtained postpartum. Despite these reductions, most women maintain a therapeutic AUC of at least 2 mg x hr/L throughout pregnancy; thus, dosage adjustments are not required. Changes in the pharmacokinetics of tenofovir are theorized to be a result of increased renal clearance, expanded plasma volume, and reduced gastrointestinal absorption. Tenofovir has a high placental transfer to the fetus.
  Text
  Doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir is administered orally.
 
Doravirine: Doravirine is administered orally. Following systemic absorption, doravirine has a volume of distribution of 60.5 liters and is 76% bound to plasma proteins. The drug undergoes extensive metabolism in the liver by CYP3A enzymes. Metabolites account for the majority of the elimination, with only 6% of the dose being excreted in the urine as unchanged drug. Biliary/fecal excretion is a minor elimination pathway. The elimination half-life is 15 hours. Lamivudine: Lamivudine exhibits low plasma protein binding (less than 36%) and has a 1.3 L/kg volume of distribution. The drug is only minimally metabolized, with the majority of the dose (71%) being eliminated unchanged in the urine by glomerular filtration and active organic cationic secretion. The observed mean elimination half-life ranges from 5 to 7 hours. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: Protein binding of tenofovir is negligible (less than 0.7%) and binding is independent of concentration over the range of 0.01 to 25 mcg/mL. Intracellularly, tenofovir undergoes phosphorylation to its active metabolite, tenofovir diphosphate (PMPApp). Tenofovir and tenofovir diphosphate have a prolonged intracellular half-life (15 to 50 hours). In vitro studies indicate that neither tenofovir disoproxil fumarate nor tenofovir are substrates of cytochrome P450 enzymes. Approximately 70% to 80% of the dose is recovered as unchanged drug in the urine. Tenofovir is eliminated by a combination of glomerular filtration and active renal tubular secretion; there may be competition for elimination with other compounds that are also renally eliminated. The terminal elimination half-life is approximately 17 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and transporters: CYP3A, P-gp, BRCP
Doravirine is primarily metabolized CYP3A4. The drug is neither an inducer nor an inhibitor of CYP450 isoenzymes or drug transporters. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporters. Administration with inhibitors of these transporters may result in increased absorption of tenofovir.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
NOTE: Doravirine; lamivudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a complete regimen. Do not administer with other antiretroviral medications.
NOTE: Interruptions of therapy may be necessary for specific situations.
If an unanticipated short-term treatment interruption (i.e., less than 1 to 2 days) is necessary, it is generally recommended that all antiretroviral agents be discontinued simultaneously, especially if the interruption occurs in a pregnant patient or is because of serious toxicity.
If a short-term treatment interruption is anticipated, as in the case of elective surgery, consider the pharmacokinetic properties and food requirements of the specific antiretroviral medications. Stopping a treatment regimen containing medications with differing half-lives may result in functional monotherapy of the antiretroviral with the longest half-life and may increase the risk for resistant mutations.
Health care providers are advised to restart a complete and effective antiretroviral regimen as soon as possible after a short-term interruption of therapy.
Planned long-term treatment interruptions are not recommended due to the potential for HIV disease progression (i.e., declining CD4 counts, viral rebound, acute viral syndrome), development of minor HIV-associated manifestations or serious non-AIDS complications, development of drug resistance, increased risk of HIV transmission, and increased risk for opportunistic infections.
If therapy must be discontinued, counsel the patient on the potential risks and closely monitor for any clinical or laboratory abnormalities.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer orally with or without food.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1 tablet/day PO (doravirine 100 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg/day).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1 tablet/day PO (doravirine 100 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg/day).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    weight 35 kg or more: 1 tablet/day PO (doravirine 100 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg/day).
weight less than 35 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    weight 35 kg or more: 1 tablet/day PO (doravirine 100 mg/day; lamivudine 300 mg/day; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg/day).
weight less than 35 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A and B). Treatment has not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C).
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 50 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
CrCl less than 50 mL/minute: Not recommended.
