=== Doravirine/Islatravir (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5664)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Doravirine; islatravir is a combination of doravirine, a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI), and islatravir, a nucleoside reverse transcriptase translocation inhibitor (NRTTI), indicated as a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 in individuals virologically suppressed on...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 100 mg/day doravirine PO; 0.25 mg/day islatravir PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): abnormal dreams, asthenia, dizziness, fatigue, headache, insomnia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Doravirine; islatravir does not have activity against hepatitis B virus (HBV).

Brand Names
  - IDVYNSO

Dosage Forms
  - IDVYNSO 100mg-0.25mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        100 mg doravirine; 0.25 mg islatravir PO once daily. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection type 1 as a replacement for a current antiretroviral regimen in those who are virologically-suppressed (HIV-1 RNA less than 50 copies/mL) on a stable regimen with no history of treatment failure or no known substitutions associated with resistance to doravirine

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Doravirine; islatravir does not have activity against hepatitis B virus (HBV). Closely monitor individuals with hepatitis B infection switched to doravirine; islatravir from an antiretroviral regimen with activity against HBV and individuals who are newly diagnosed with HBV coinfection, and consider specific anti-HBV therapy, as clinically appropriate.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Doravirine; islatravir is not recommended in individuals with renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2) or renal failure. Doravirine; islatravir has not been studied in individuals undergoing dialysis.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C
    General Information
    Doravirine; islatravir is not recommended for use in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C). Doravirine; islatravir has not been studied in these individuals.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. There are insufficient data to recommend the use of doravirine-containing regimens in pregnant people or people who are trying to become pregnant. However, for people with virologic suppression who become pregnant while receiving doravirine; islatravir, consider whether to change to an alternative treatment option or continue the same regimen. If the decision is made to continue, viral loads should be monitored more frequently (i.e., every 1 to 2 months). The Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR) has prospectively monitored 24 patients treated with doravirine during the first trimester and 6 patients treated during the second and third trimesters. Two infants with first trimester exposure were noted to have a birth defect. This information is insufficient to make conclusions about the safety of doravirine-containing regimens during pregnancy. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA concentrations above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Provide individuals with evidence-based, patient-centered counseling to support shared decision-making regarding breast-feeding. Inform patients that use of replacement feeding (i.e., formula or banked pasteurized donor human milk) eliminates the risk of HIV transmission. It is recommended to use replacement feeding in people with HIV who are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) or do not have suppressed viral load during pregnancy, as well as at delivery. For people on ART who have achieved and maintained viral suppression during pregnancy (at minimum throughout the third trimester) and postpartum, the transmission risk from breast-feeding is less than 1%, but not zero. Virologically suppressed people who choose to breast-feed should be supported in this decision. If breast-feeding is chosen, counsel the patient about the importance of adherence to therapy and recommend that the child be exclusively breastfed for up to 6 months of age, as exclusive breast-feeding has been associated with a lower rate of HIV transmission as compared to mixed feeding (i.e., breast milk and formula). If a viral load is subsequently detected in a breast-feeding person, it is recommended to discontinue or temporarily stop breast-feeding while the viral load is rechecked, causes of viremia are assessed, adherence counseling is reinforced, and the breastfed child undergoes HIV nucleic acid testing (NAT). If the repeated viral load is undetectable, a shared decision should be made regarding resumption of breast-feeding. If the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is 200 copies/mL or more, most experts recommend permanent discontinuation of breast-feeding and initiation of 3-drug presumptive ART for the child. ART (1- or 3-drug regimen) for the child may also be considered if the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is quantifiable but less than 200 copies/mL; consult an expert for guidance. For people who receive a new HIV diagnosis while breast-feeding (acute HIV), it is recommended to immediately discontinue breast-feeding, begin replacement feeding, perform an infant HIV NAT, and initiate 3-drug presumptive ART for the child. Promptly identify and treat mastitis, thrush, and cracked or bleeding nipples, as these conditions may increase the risk of HIV transmission through breast-feeding. Breast-fed children should undergo immediate diagnostic and virologic HIV testing. Testing should continue throughout breast-feeding and up to 6 months after cessation of breast-feeding. For expert consultation, care teams may contact the Perinatal HIV Hotline (888-448-8765). There are no data on the presence of doravirine; islatravir in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Doravirine was present in the milk of lactating rats. Islatravir was detected in the plasma of nursing pups from lactating rats administered islatravir.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. There are insufficient data to recommend the use of doravirine-containing regimens in pregnant people or people who are trying to become pregnant. However, for people with virologic suppression who become pregnant while receiving doravirine; islatravir, consider whether to change to an alternative treatment option or continue the same regimen. If the decision is made to continue, viral loads should be monitored more frequently (i.e., every 1 to 2 months). The Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR) has prospectively monitored 24 patients treated with doravirine during the first trimester and 6 patients treated during the second and third trimesters. Two infants with first trimester exposure were noted to have a birth defect. This information is insufficient to make conclusions about the safety of doravirine-containing regimens during pregnancy. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA concentrations above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Provide individuals with evidence-based, patient-centered counseling to support shared decision-making regarding breast-feeding. Inform patients that use of replacement feeding (i.e., formula or banked pasteurized donor human milk) eliminates the risk of HIV transmission. It is recommended to use replacement feeding in people with HIV who are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) or do not have suppressed viral load during pregnancy, as well as at delivery. For people on ART who have achieved and maintained viral suppression during pregnancy (at minimum throughout the third trimester) and postpartum, the transmission risk from breast-feeding is less than 1%, but not zero. Virologically suppressed people who choose to breast-feed should be supported in this decision. If breast-feeding is chosen, counsel the patient about the importance of adherence to therapy and recommend that the child be exclusively breastfed for up to 6 months of age, as exclusive breast-feeding has been associated with a lower rate of HIV transmission as compared to mixed feeding (i.e., breast milk and formula). If a viral load is subsequently detected in a breast-feeding person, it is recommended to discontinue or temporarily stop breast-feeding while the viral load is rechecked, causes of viremia are assessed, adherence counseling is reinforced, and the breastfed child undergoes HIV nucleic acid testing (NAT). If the repeated viral load is undetectable, a shared decision should be made regarding resumption of breast-feeding. If the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is 200 copies/mL or more, most experts recommend permanent discontinuation of breast-feeding and initiation of 3-drug presumptive ART for the child. ART (1- or 3-drug regimen) for the child may also be considered if the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is quantifiable but less than 200 copies/mL; consult an expert for guidance. For people who receive a new HIV diagnosis while breast-feeding (acute HIV), it is recommended to immediately discontinue breast-feeding, begin replacement feeding, perform an infant HIV NAT, and initiate 3-drug presumptive ART for the child. Promptly identify and treat mastitis, thrush, and cracked or bleeding nipples, as these conditions may increase the risk of HIV transmission through breast-feeding. Breast-fed children should undergo immediate diagnostic and virologic HIV testing. Testing should continue throughout breast-feeding and up to 6 months after cessation of breast-feeding. For expert consultation, care teams may contact the Perinatal HIV Hotline (888-448-8765). There are no data on the presence of doravirine; islatravir in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Doravirine was present in the milk of lactating rats. Islatravir was detected in the plasma of nursing pups from lactating rats administered islatravir.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
Adagrasib: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and adagrasib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; adagrasib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Adefovir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and clarithromycin may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Apalutamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and apalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Armodafinil: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and armodafinil may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; armodafinil is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Atazanavir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and atazanavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and atazanavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Atidarsagene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and belzutifan may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; belzutifan is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Betibeglogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Bexarotene: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and bexarotene may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and emtricitabine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; emtricitabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and bosentan may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Brigatinib: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and brigatinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; brigatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
carBAMazepine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of carbamazepine and doravirine is contraindicated due to the potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance to doravirine or the class of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs). If doravirine use is necessary, discontinue carbamazepine at least 4-weeks prior to initiation. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a potent CYP3A4 inducer.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and cenobamate may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ceritinib: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in doravirine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ceritinib is necessary; increased doravirine plasma concentrations may occur. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ceritinib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Chloramphenicol: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and chloramphenicol may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; chloramphenicol is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Cladribine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of islatravir and cladribine. Concurrent use may decrease islatravir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; cladribine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Clarithromycin: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and clarithromycin may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
cloBAZam: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and clobazam may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clobazam is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Clofarabine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of islatravir and clofarabine. Concurrent use may decrease islatravir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; clofarabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Cobicistat: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Cytarabine, ARA-C: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of islatravir and cytarabine. Concurrent use may decrease islatravir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; cytarabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Dabrafenib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and dabrafenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Darunavir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and darunavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and darunavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and emtricitabine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; emtricitabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and darunavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Deferasirox: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and deferasirox may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; deferasirox is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in doravirine efficacy during concurrent use of doravirine and dexamethasone. If long term coadministration is required, consider using an alternative corticosteroid, such as prednisone or prednisolone. Concomitant use may decrease doravirine exposure leading to potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate and dexamethasone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
Efavirenz: (Contraindicated) Concurrent treatment with efavirenz and doravirine is not recommended. Both medications are non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), and using these drugs together would represent duplicate therapy. In addition, taking these drugs together results in decreased doravirine exposure. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and emtricitabine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; emtricitabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. (Contraindicated) Concurrent treatment with efavirenz and doravirine is not recommended. Both medications are non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), and using these drugs together would represent duplicate therapy. In addition, taking these drugs together results in decreased doravirine exposure. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%. (Contraindicated) Concurrent treatment with efavirenz and doravirine is not recommended. Both medications are non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), and using these drugs together would represent duplicate therapy. In addition, taking these drugs together results in decreased doravirine exposure. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Elafibranor: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and elafibranor may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and elagolix may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and elagolix may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elivaldogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and emtricitabine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; emtricitabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and emtricitabine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; emtricitabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and cobicistat may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Emtricitabine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and emtricitabine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; emtricitabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and emtricitabine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; emtricitabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and emtricitabine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; emtricitabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and emtricitabine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; emtricitabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and emtricitabine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; emtricitabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Enasidenib: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and enasidenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; enasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Encorafenib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and encorafenib is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ensitrelvir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Enzalutamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and enzalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Eslicarbazepine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and eslicarbazepine may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Etravirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent treatment with etravirine and doravirine is not recommended. Both medications are non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), and using these drugs together would represent duplicate therapy. In addition, taking these drugs together may result in decreased doravirine exposure. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; etravirine is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Etuvetidigene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV), such as etuvetidigene autotemcel. Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization and continue to hold therapy until at least 7 days after etuvetidigene autotemcel infusion; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may decrease etuvetidigene autotemcel efficacy by reducing LVV activity and interfering with gene therapy manufacturing.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and fexinidazole may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fludarabine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of islatravir and fludarabine. Concurrent use may decrease islatravir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; fludarabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Fosamprenavir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and fosamprenavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; fosamprenavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Fosphenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and fosphenytoin is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenytoin (the active metabolite of fosphenytoin) is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Gemcitabine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of islatravir and gemcitabine. Concurrent use may decrease islatravir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; gemcitabine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway.
Glycerol Phenylbutyrate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and glycerol phenylbutyrate may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; glycerol phenylbutyrate is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Idelalisib: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and idelalisib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; idelalisib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Itraconazole: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and itraconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; itraconazole is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Ketoconazole: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ketoconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ketoconazole increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and clarithromycin may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Lentivirus vector therapy (selected): (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Levoketoconazole: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ketoconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ketoconazole increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Lonafarnib: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and lonafarnib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ritonavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ritonavir increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Lorlatinib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and lorlatinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lovotibeglogene autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Marnetegragene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Mavacamten: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mavacamten may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meropenem: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and meropenem may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and meropenem may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer.
miFEPRIStone: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and chronic mifepristone therapy may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; mifepristone is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant. The clinical significance of CYP450 inhibition with short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mitapivat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Mitotane: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mitotane is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Mobocertinib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mobocertinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and modafinil may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Nafcillin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and nafcillin may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Nefazodone: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and nefazodone may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; nefazodone is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Nelfinavir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and nelfinavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; nelfinavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Nevirapine: (Major) Coadministration of nevirapine and doravirine is not recommended as the combined use of two NNRTIs has not been shown to be beneficial. Concomitant use may also cause a significant decrease in doravirine plasma concentrations and, thus, a loss of therapeutic effect. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ritonavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ritonavir increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Odevixibat: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and odevixibat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; odevixibat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Olutasidenib: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and olutasidenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; olutasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Omaveloxolone: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and omaveloxolone may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Increase the doravirine dose to 100 mg PO twice daily if concomitant use with rifabutin is necessary. Concurrent use decreases doravirine exposure which may increase the risk for loss of virologic control without an appropriate doravirine dosage adjustment. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to reduce doravirine overall exposure by 50%.
Oritavancin: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and oritavancin may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Orlistat: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
OXcarbazepine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and oxcarbazepine is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; oxcarbazepine is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and pacritinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Pentostatin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of islatravir and pentostatin due to the risk for increased islatravir exposure which may increase the risk for islatravir-related adverse reactions. Islatravir is an adenosine deaminase (ADA) substrate and pentostatin is an ADA inhibitor.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and pexidartinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and phenobarbital is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and phenobarbital is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and topiramate may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Phenytoin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and phenytoin is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Posaconazole: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and posaconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; posaconazole is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Primidone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and primidone is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Relacorilant: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and relacorilant may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Repotrectinib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and repotrectinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribavirin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ribavirin and antiretroviral non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) should be done with caution as both can cause hepatic damage. NNRTIs may cause liver damage in the context of hypersensitivity reactions or by direct toxic effects. Many studies demonstrate that nevirapine is more hepatotoxic than efavirenz. Underlying chronic HCV infection enhances the risk of developing liver enzyme elevations in patients receiving nevirapine. Overall, the HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation.
Ribociclib: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ribociclib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ribociclib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ribociclib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ribociclib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Rifabutin: (Major) Increase the doravirine dose to 100 mg PO twice daily if concomitant use with rifabutin is necessary. Concurrent use decreases doravirine exposure which may increase the risk for loss of virologic control without an appropriate doravirine dosage adjustment. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use has been observed to reduce doravirine overall exposure by 50%.
rifAMPin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and rifampin is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rifapentine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and rifapentine is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Ritonavir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ritonavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ritonavir increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Saquinavir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and saquinavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; saquinavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.Coadministration may increase doravirine exposure. Concurrent use of strong inhibitors like saquinavir increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and secobarbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; secobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and taurursodiol may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and sotorasib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and St. John's Wort is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Suzetrigine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and suzetrigine may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Tazemetostat: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and tazemetostat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; tazemetostat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Tecovirimat: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and tecovirimat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; tecovirimat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Telotristat Ethyl: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and telotristat may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; telotristat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Tipranavir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and tipranavir may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; tipranavir is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Topiramate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and topiramate may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; topiramate is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Tovorafenib: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and tovorafenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Tucatinib: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and tucatinib may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and clarithromycin may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Vorasidenib: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and vorasidenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Voriconazole: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and voriconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; voriconazole is a strong inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis
    General Information
    Rash and pruritus occurred in less than 2% of individuals receiving doravirine; islatravir during clinical trials. A serious Grade 4 drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) was reported 10 weeks after starting doravirine; islatravir and was characterized by a diffuse pruritic maculopapular rash covering 60% of the body, lymphadenopathy, eosinophilia, and an episode of hypotension. Severe skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), have been reported during postmarketing experience with doravirine-containing regimens. Discontinue doravirine; islatravir immediately if a painful rash with mucosal involvement, a progressive severe rash, or a rash with constitutional symptoms, eosinophilia, lymphadenopathy, or other organ involvement develops.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, flatulence, nausea
    General Information
    Diarrhea (1% to 3%) and abdominal distension (1% to 2%) were reported during clinical trials in adults receiving doravirine; islatravir. Less common gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported in fewer than 2% of participants included abdominal pain, flatulence, and nausea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abnormal dreams, asthenia, dizziness, fatigue, headache, insomnia
    General Information
    Dizziness, fatigue/asthenia, and headache each occurred in 1% to 2% of adult individuals receiving doravirine; islatravir during clinical trials. Abnormal dreams and insomnia were reported in less than 2% of individuals.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abnormal dreams
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    weight gain
    General Information
    Weight gain was reported in 2% or less of adult individuals receiving doravirine; islatravir during clinical trials. The mean change in weight from baseline in 1 clinical trial was 0.94 kg with doravirine; islatravir versus -0.15 kg with continued baseline antiretroviral therapy; however, in another trial, the mean change was -0.03 kg with doravirine; islatravir versus 0.28 kg with continued baseline antiretroviral therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported during clinical trials. The individuals were generally asymptomatic, and the laboratory abnormalities resolved without discontinuation of doravirine; islatravir. Grade 2 to Grade 4 alanine aminotransferase or aspartate aminotransferase abnormalities occurred in 1% to 2% of individuals. Three individuals had alanine aminotransferase and/or aspartate aminotransferase elevations greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal attributed to doravirine; islatravir that improved after discontinuation; 2 individuals were asymptomatic and 1 individual experienced transient elevated bilirubin and mild nausea. Grade 2 to Grade 3 increase in total bilirubin occurred in 1% or less of individuals. Hepatitis has been reported during postmarketing experience with doravirine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    A case of severe immune thrombocytopenia was reported 32 days after doravirine; islatravir initiation during a clinical trial. It resolved after medication discontinuation and supportive therapy with corticosteroids and IVIG.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Doravirine; islatravir is a combination of doravirine, a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI), and islatravir, a nucleoside reverse transcriptase translocation inhibitor (NRTTI), indicated as a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 in individuals virologically suppressed on a stable antiretroviral regimen with no history of treatment failure and no known substitutions associated with resistance to doravirine. Doravirine has a favorable overall drug profile among non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, including a favorable lipid profile and a lower frequency of neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. Islatravir is a highly potent nucleoside analogue inhibitor of HIV reverse transcriptase with multiple mechanisms of action, including translocation inhibition and delayed chain termination. Studies suggest a high barrier to resistance, and islatravir has demonstrated potent in vitro antiviral activity that covers relevant variants that are resistant to nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. The combination of doravirine; islatravir has potent antiretroviral activity and a complementary resistance profile. In clinical trials, doravirine; islatravir maintained virologic suppression through Week 48 and was noninferior to continued baseline antiretroviral therapy and to continued bictegravir/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide. Severe skin reactions, including Steven's-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and drug rash with eosinophlilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS syndrome) have been reported with doravirine-containing regimens. Doravirine; islatravir is contraindicated with strong CYP3A inducers and with lamivudine or emtricitabine because of the potential for reduced regimen efficacy. Doravirine; islatravir was FDA-approved in April 2026.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Doravirine; islatravir combines 2 antiretroviral agents that inhibit HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT) through complementary mechanisms and resistance profiles.
Doravirine: Doravirine is a pyridinone non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) that inhibits HIV-1 replication by noncompetitive inhibition of HIV-1 RT. It does not inhibit human cellular DNA polymerases alpha or beta or mitochondrial DNA polymerase gamma.
Islatravir: Islatravir is a deoxyadenosine nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor that is phosphorylated by cellular kinases to the active metabolite islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). ISL-TP inhibits HIV-1 RT after incorporation into nascent viral DNA by blocking translocation (immediate chain termination) and by causing structural changes that prevent additional nucleotide incorporation (delayed chain termination). It does not inhibit human DNA polymerase beta or mitochondrial DNA polymerase gamma and shows only weak inhibition of human DNA polymerase alpha in biochemical assays.
 
Resistance
Doravirine: In vitro selection studies identified multiple RT substitutions associated with reduced susceptibility to doravirine. Emergent substitutions included V106A/I/M, V108I, H221Y, F227C/I/L/V, M230I, L234I, P236L, and Y318F; selected substitutions such as V106A, V106M, V108I, H221Y, F227C, M230I, P236L, and Y318F were associated with approximately 3.4- to 70-fold reductions in doravirine susceptibility. Y318F alone conferred an approximately 10-fold reduction, with greater loss of susceptibility observed when Y318F occurred in combination with V106A, V106M, V108I, or F227C.
Islatravir: The primary selected RT substitutions were M184I and M184V, associated with 3- to 7-fold and 4- to 10-fold reductions in susceptibility, respectively. Additional substitutions observed included M41L, L74I, V90I, A114S, I142V, A158T, C162Y, T165A/R, H221Y, and A400T. A114S alone produced a modest approximately 2-fold reduction in susceptibility; however, in combination with M184V and other substitutions, such as A114S/M184V, M41L/A114S/M184V, or M41L/A114S/M184V/A400T, islatravir susceptibility was reduced by approximately 38- to 65-fold. Other individual substitutions were associated with no more than a 2-fold decrease in islatravir susceptibility.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Doravirine absolute bioavailability is 64%; islatravir absolute bioavailability is unknown. Under fasting conditions, the median Tmax is about 4 hours for doravirine and 1 hour for islatravir. Food has no clinically relevant effect on doravirine or islatravir exposure. Steady state is reached in about 2 days for doravirine and 7 days for islatravir. The AUC and Cmax of doravirine are 37.8 micromolar x hour and 2.26 micromolar, respectively. The AUC and Cmax of islatravir are 31.4 nanomolar x hour and 3.45 nanomolar, respectively.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Doravirine: No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of doravirine were observed in individuals with mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment. The pharmacokinetics of doravirine in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) is unknown.
Islatravir: No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of islatravir were observed in individuals with mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment. The pharmacokinetics of islatravir in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Doravirine: No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of doravirine were observed in mild to severe renal impairment (CrCL greater than 15 mL/minute). The pharmacokinetics of doravirine in individuals with end-stage renal disease or undergoing dialysis are unknown.
Islatravir: No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of islatravir were observed in individuals with mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or greater). A single dose exposure to islatravir was approximately 2-fold higher in individuals with severe renal impairment. The pharmacokinetics of islatravir in individuals undergoing dialysis is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Doravirine: No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of doravirine were observed based on age (18 to 78 years).
Islatravir: No clinically significant differences in pharmacokinetics of islatravir were observed based on age (18 to 83 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of doravirine or islatravir were observed based on gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of doravirine or islatravir were observed based on race or ethnicity.
  Text
  Doravirine; islatravir is administered orally. The apparent Vd divided by bioavailability (Vd/F) is 162 L and 264 L for doravirine and islatravir, respectively. After oral administration, doravirine is 76% protein bound. It is primarily metabolized by CYP3A, and 6% is excreted unchanged in urine. Islatravir is only 3% protein bound and primarily metabolized by adenosine deaminase (ADA)-mediated oxidative deamination. About 32% of islatravir is excreted unchanged in urine. The apparent clearance is 6.34 L/hour for doravirine and 27.7 L/hour for islatravir. The elimination half-life of doravirine is 15 hours. The effective half-life of islatravir is about 21 hours, the terminal half-life of islatravir is about 230 hours, and the terminal half-life of intracellular islatravir triphosphate (ISL-TP) is approximately 186 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A
Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate. CYP3A inducers or inhibitors may affect the clearance of doravirine. Doravirine in vitro did not inhibit CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 3A4, and UGT1A1. It is likely not to be an inducer of CYP1A2, 2B6, or 3A4. Based on in vitro assays, it is likely not to inhibit OATP1B1, OATP1B3, P-gp, BSEP, OAT1, OAT3, OCT2, MATE1, or MATE2K. Islatravir is activated by deoxycytidine kinase (dCK), and dCK substrates, such as lamivudine and emtricitabine, can markedly reduce intracellular ISL-TP. ADA inhibitors may increase islatravir exposure. Islatravir is a BCRP substrate, but clinically meaningful BCRP-mediated interactions are not expected. Islatravir is not a substrate for OAT1, OAT3, OCT2, MATE1, MATE2K, or P-gp. Islatravir does not inhibit CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 3A, UGT1A1, UGT2B7, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, OAT1, MATE1, MATE2K, P-gp, BSEP, MRP2, MRP3, or MRP4 at clinically relevant concentrations. It did inhibit OCT2, OAT3, and BCRP by 15% to 35% at 100 micromolar, though not at clinically relevant concentrations. Islatravir does not induce CYP3A4, 1A2, or 2B6, in vitro.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take with or without food.
Missed Dose: If a dose is missed, advise the individual to take it as soon as possible. If it is almost time for the next dose, take only that dose.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    100 mg/day doravirine PO; 0.25 mg/day islatravir PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    100 mg/day doravirine PO; 0.25 mg/day islatravir PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or B): No dosage adjustment required.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C): Use is not recommended.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or greater: No dosage adjustment needed.
eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Use is not recommended.
 
Hemodialysis:
Doravirine; islatravir has not been studied in individuals receiving dialysis.
