=== Abacavir/Dolutegravir/lamiVUDine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3898)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine is indicated for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: abacavir 600 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 50 mg/day PO; lamivudine 300 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, insomnia, lethargy, nightmares, paresthesias, seizures, suicidal ideation, gastroesophageal reflux, weight gain, alopecia, erythema multiforme, pruritus, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, anemia, aplastic anemia, elevated creatine kinase, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, lymphadenopathy, myalgia, neutropenia, rhabdomyolysis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: HLA-B*5701-positive, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis Abacavir has been associated with serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis (some cases have been fatal); to reduce the risk, perform HLA-B*5701 testing on all patients before initiating treatment. Abacavir is... Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

ABACAVIR/DOLUTEGRAVIR/LAMIVUDINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

TRIUMEQ, Triumeq PD

Indication Specific Dosing

General Dosing Information
NOTE: HIV guidelines recommend screening for HLA-B*5701 before initiating an abacavir-containing regimen to reduce the risk of hypersensitivity reaction. HLA-B*5701-positive patients should not be prescribed abacavir.
NOTE: HIV guidelines recommend consideration be given to avoiding the use of abacavir-containing regimens in patients at high risk for cardiovascular adverse events. Although a definitive correlation has not been established, recent (within 6 months) or current use of abacavir has been associated with an increased risk of myocardial infarction.
 
Initiation of therapy for HIV treatment
For adults, initiation of treatment immediately (or as soon as possible) after HIV diagnosis is recommended in all patients to reduce the risk of disease progression and to prevent the transmission of HIV, including perinatal transmission and transmission to sexual partners.
Starting antiretroviral therapy early is particularly important for patients with AIDS-defining conditions, those with acute or recent HIV infection, and individuals who are pregnant; delaying therapy in these subpopulations has been associated with high risks of morbidity, mortality, and HIV transmission.
For patients receiving an HIV diagnosis while hospitalized, it is recommended to initiate treatment during hospitalization whenever possible. Further, ensure a sufficient supply of medication (e.g., at least 2 to 4 weeks) is available to cover until the outpatient clinic appointment.
For elite controllers (i.e., patients who maintain viral loads below the level of quantification for years without treatment), antiretroviral therapy is still recommended. If deferred, closely monitor these patients as some may experience CD4 count decline, loss of viral control, or HIV-related complications.
Prior to initiating treatment, obtain baseline plasma HIV RNA (viral load) and CD4 count; results do not need to be available before starting therapy.
Antiretroviral drug-resistance testing:
Genotypic drug-resistance testing is recommended prior to initiation of therapy in all antiretroviral treatment-naive patients and prior to changing therapy for treatment failure.
Standard genotypic drug-resistance testing in treatment-naive people should focus on testing for mutations in reverse transcriptase (RT) and protease (PR) genes.
Testing for mutations in the integrase gene should also be performed if integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) resistance is a concern (i.e., prior exposure to INSTI for pre-exposure prophylaxis, post-exposure prophylaxis, or treatment).
For patients who previously received long-acting cabotegravir or cabotegravir; rilpivirine, resistance testing (including INSTI genotypic testing) should be conducted regardless of the time since the last dose as INSTI and NNRTI mutations may emerge months after the last dose.
Phenotypic resistance testing may be used in conjunction with the genotypic test for patients with known or suspected complex drug resistance mutation patterns.
HIV-1 proviral DNA resistance testing is available for use in patients with HIV RNA concentrations below the limits of detection or with low-level viremia (i.e., less than 1,000 copies/mL), where genotypic testing is unlikely to be successful; however, the clinical utility of this assay has not been fully determined.
It is not necessary to delay treatment until resistance test results are available; however, subsequent modifications to the treatment regimen should be made, if needed, once the test results are available.
Pediatric guidelines are also available.
 
Place in therapy for HIV infection
Abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine is recommended as an alternative initial regimen for pregnant and non-pregnant adults and adolescents with HIV-1, HIV-2, or HIV-1/HIV-2 coinfection, except in individuals:
who are HLA-B*5701 positive
who have a history of using long-acting cabotegravir as pre-exposure prophylaxis and need to start treatment before results of INSTI genotypic resistance testing are available
with HBV coinfection (unless tenofovir alafenamide, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, or entecavir is used concurrently)
For acute HIV infections, consider selecting an alternative regimen unless the results of HLA-B*5701 testing are already known.
Pediatric guidelines are also available.


For the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection

Oral dosage (Triumeq only)
Adults


600 mg abacavir; 50 mg dolutegravir; 300 mg lamivudine PO once daily.


Children and Adolescents weighing 25 kg or more


600 mg abacavir; 50 mg dolutegravir; 300 mg lamivudine PO once daily.


Oral dosage (Triumeq PD only)
Children weighing 20 to 24 kg


360 mg abacavir; 30 mg dolutegravir; 180 mg lamivudine PO once daily.


Children weighing 14 to 19 kg


300 mg abacavir; 25 mg dolutegravir; 150 mg lamivudine PO once daily.


Children weighing 10 to 13 kg


240 mg abacavir; 20 mg dolutegravir; 120 mg lamivudine PO once daily.


Children weighing 6 to 9 kg


180 mg abacavir; 15 mg dolutegravir; 90 mg lamivudine PO once daily.


Infants 3 to 11 months weighing 10 to 13 kg


240 mg abacavir; 20 mg dolutegravir; 120 mg lamivudine PO once daily.


Infants 3 to 11 months weighing 6 to 9 kg


180 mg abacavir; 15 mg dolutegravir; 90 mg lamivudine PO once daily.


Infants 3 to 11 months weighing 3 to 5 kg†


60 mg abacavir; 5 mg dolutegravir; 30 mg lamivudine PO once daily.


Infants 1 to 2 months weighing 6 to 9 kg†


180 mg abacavir; 15 mg dolutegravir; 90 mg lamivudine PO once daily.


Infants 1 to 2 months weighing 3 to 5 kg†


60 mg abacavir; 5 mg dolutegravir; 30 mg lamivudine PO once daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

HLA-B*5701-positive, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis


Abacavir has been associated with serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis (some cases have been fatal); to reduce the risk, perform HLA-B*5701 testing on all patients before initiating treatment. Abacavir is contraindicated in any HLA-B*5701-positive patient; clearly record the positive status as an abacavir allergy in the patients' medical record. According to the manufacturer, the estimated incidence of hypersensitivity to abacavir was 8% when HLA-B*5701 screening was not performed; the incidence was 1% when HLA-B*5701-positive patients were excluded. Racial background may help identify those at higher risk for carrying the gene, as in the United States approximately 8% of Caucasian patients, 2.5% of Black patients, and 1% of Asian patients are carriers. Regardless of HLA-B*5701 status, immediately discontinue treatment in patients developing or with suspected signs or symptoms of abacavir hypersensitivity, including those presenting with 2 or more of the following: fever, rash, gastrointestinal (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain), constitutional (generalized malaise, fatigue, achiness), or respiratory (dyspnea, cough, pharyngitis). Other potential signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity include: lethargy, headache, myolysis, edema, localized infiltrates on chest x-ray, arthralgia, paresthesia, lymphadenopathy, conjunctivitis, oral ulceration, elevated liver function tests, creatine phosphokinase, creatinine, and lymphopenia. Permanently discontinue abacavir if the clinical presentation of an acute illness cannot be clearly differentiated from a hypersensitivity reaction. NEVER reinitiate an abacavir containing product in a patient who experiences a hypersensitivity reaction as more severe symptoms will recur within hours of administration and may include life-threatening hypotension and death. Severe or fatal hypersensitivity reactions may also occur within hours after abacavir reintroduction in patients without an identified history of hypersensitivity, but who abruptly discontinued abacavir for reasons unrelated to symptoms of hypersensitivity (e.g., interruption in drug supply or discontinuation while treating other medical conditions). In some cases, symptoms consistent with hypersensitivity may have been present before abacavir was discontinued, but may have been attributed to other medical conditions (e.g., acute onset respiratory diseases, gastroenteritis, or reactions to other medications). In a minority of cases, hypersensitivity reactions occurred days to weeks after abacavir reintroduction. If abacavir has been discontinued for reasons other than symptoms of hypersensitivity and if reinitiation is being considered, re-evaluate the reason for discontinuation and ensure that the patient did not have any suspected symptoms of hypersensitivity. If hypersensitivity symptoms are suspected upon review or if hypersensitivity cannot be ruled out, do not reinitiate abacavir. If symptoms consistent with hypersensitivity are not identified and the patient is HLA-B*5701-negative, undertake reintroduction with caution. If HLA-B*5701 status is unknown, screening should occur prior to restarting therapy. Report all hypersensitivity reactions to the FDA MedWatch program (800-FDA-1088).


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine is contraindicated for use in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment, including those with hepatic failure. A dose reduction of the abacavir component is required for patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A). However, because this is a fixed dose combination product, the abacavir dose cannot be adjusted; therefore, the use of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine should be avoided in patients with mild hepatic impairment. Use abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine with caution in those with known risk factors for hepatic disease.


hepatitis B infection


Patients with an underlying hepatitis B infection may be at increased risk for worsening or development of transaminase elevations with the use of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine. In some cases, the elevations in transaminases are consistent with immune reconstitution syndrome or hepatitis B reactivation. If abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine is used to treat HIV in a patient with HBV coinfection, an additional therapy should be considered for appropriate treatment of HBV; otherwise, consider an alternative regimen. Perform hepatitis A virus (HAV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) screening in any patient who presents with HIV infection to assure appropriate treatment. If the HBV screening is positive, additional testing for hepatitis D virus (HDV) is recommended. Patients with HIV and HBV/HDV coinfection should be referred to an expert in the management of viral hepatitis. Patients with hepatitis B and HIV coinfection should be started on a fully suppressive antiretroviral (ARV) regimen with activity against both viruses (regardless of CD4 counts and HBV DNA concentrations). HIV treatment guidelines recommend these patients receive an ARV regimen that contains a dual NRTI backbone of tenofovir alafenamide or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with either emtricitabine or lamivudine. Both tenofovir products are active against HBV and can be used as HBV monotherapy. Emtricitabine and lamivudine are also active against HBV; however, they are not recommended for use as monotherapy due to the potential for HBV resistance. Therefore, if tenofovir cannot be used, entecavir should be given in combination with a fully suppressive ARV regimen (NOTE: entecavir should not be considered part of the ARV regimen). Avoid HBV treatment regimens that include adefovir or peginterferon alfa, as these regimens are associated with a higher incidence of toxicities and increased rates of HBV treatment failure. In rare cases, peginterferon alfa can remain a treatment option after consultation with an expert. Most patients with coinfection should continue treatment indefinitely with the goal of maximal HIV suppression and prevention of HBV relapse. If treatment must be discontinued, monitor transaminase concentrations every 6 weeks for the first 3 months, and every 3 to 6 months thereafter. Instruct patients to avoid consuming alcohol and offer vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.


General Information

During baseline evaluation of people with HIV, discuss risk reduction measures and the need for status disclosure to sexual or needle-sharing partners, especially with untreated patients who are still at high risk of HIV transmission. Include the importance of adherence to therapy to achieve and maintain a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL. Maintaining a plasma HIV RNA less than 200 copies/mL, including any measurable value below this threshold, with antiretroviral therapy prevents sexual transmission of HIV to their partners. Patients may recognize this concept as Undetectable = Untransmittable or U=U. Instruct patients to achieve sustained viral suppression (i.e., 2 recorded measurements of plasma viral loads that are below the limits of detection and taken at least 3 months apart) before attempting to conceive a child in order to maximize their health, prevent HIV sexual transmission, and minimize the risk of HIV transmission to the infant once conception occurs. For partners with different HIV status when the person with HIV is on antiretroviral therapy and has achieved sustained viral suppression, sexual intercourse without a condom allows conception without sexual HIV transmission to the person without HIV; expert consultation is recommended. If the partner with HIV has not been able to achieve viral suppression, has an unknown viral suppression status, or has the potential for inconsistent adherence during the periconception period, the use of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) by the partner without HIV is an option to reduce the risk of sexual HIV acquisition.
 
Testing for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection resistance is recommended in all antiretroviral treatment-naive patients at the time of HIV diagnosis, regardless of whether treatment will be initiated. Additionally, perform resistance testing prior to initiating or changing any HIV treatment regimen. Transmission of drug-resistant HIV strains has been both well documented and associated with suboptimal virologic response to initial antiretroviral therapy. The prevalence of transmitted drug resistance (TDR) in high-income countries ranges from 9% to 14% and varies by country. In most TDR surveys, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) resistance and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) resistance are the most common mutation class types detected, followed by protease inhibitor (PI) and integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) resistance mutations, respectively. Resistance testing at baseline can help optimize treatment and, thus, virologic response. In the absence of therapy, resistant viruses may decline over time to less than the detection limit of standard resistance tests, but may still increase the risk of treatment failure when therapy is eventually initiated. Thus, if therapy is deferred, resistance testing should still be performed during acute HIV infection with the genotypic resistance test result kept in the patient's medical record until it becomes clinically useful. Additionally, because of the possibility of acquisition of another drug-resistant virus before treatment initiation, repeat resistance testing at the time therapy is initiated would be prudent. Patients with prolonged prior nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) exposure or who had HIV-1 isolates that contain multiple mutations conferring antimicrobial resistance to other NRTIs had limited response to abacavir. The potential for cross-resistance between abacavir/lamivudine and other NRTIs, and between dolutegravir and other integrase strand transfer inhibitors should be considered when choosing new therapeutic regimens in previously treated patients.
 
HIV treatment guidelines recommend all patients presenting with HIV infection undergo routine screening for hepatitis C virus (HCV). For HCV seronegative individuals who are at continued high risk of acquiring hepatitis C, specifically men who have sex with men (MSM) or persons who inject drugs, additional HCV screening is recommended annually or as indicated by clinical presentation (e.g., unexplained ALT elevation), risk activities, or exposure. Similarly, the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines and the CDC preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP) guidelines recommend HCV serologic testing at baseline and every 12 months for MSM, transgender women, and persons who inject drugs. Use an FDA-approved immunoassay licensed for detection of HCV antibodies (anti-HCV); in settings where acute HCV infection is suspected or in persons with known prior infection that cleared spontaneously or after treatment, use of nucleic acid testing for HCV RNA is recommended. If hepatitis C and HIV coinfection is identified, consider treating both viral infections concurrently. It is recommended to use a fully suppressive antiretroviral therapy and an HCV regimen in all patients with coinfection regardless of CD4 count, as lower CD4 counts do not appear to compromise the efficacy of HCV treatment. In most patients, a simplified pangenotypic HCV regimen (i.e., glecaprevir; pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir; velpatasvir) may be an appropriate choice; however, these regimens are NOT recommended for use in persons with HCV and HIV coinfection who: are treatment-experience with HCV relapse (reinfection after successful therapy is not an exclusion); have decompensated cirrhosis; on a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate containing regimen with eGFR less than 60 mL/minute; on efavirenz, etravirine, nevirapine, or boosted protease inhibitor; have untreated chronic hepatitis B; are pregnant. Patients with HCV and HIV coinfection who meet these exclusion criteria should be treated for HCV following standard approaches as described in the AASLD/IDSA HCV guidelines. Treatment of HCV infection in children younger than 3 years is not usually recommended; however, treatment should be considered for all children 3 years and older with HCV and HIV coinfection who have no contraindications to treatment. Instruct patients with coinfection to avoid consuming alcohol, limit ingestion of potentially hepatotoxic medications, avoid iron supplementation in the absence of documented iron deficiency, and receive vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.
 
Patients with HIV who must undergo a solid organ transplant or allogeneic stem cell transplant should be managed by a multidisciplinary team before, during, and after the transplant to ensure comprehensive care. Prior to the transplant, ensure viral suppression is obtained, and the patient is up-to-date on their vaccinations. Review the patient's antiretroviral history, prior drug resistance results, adherence history, and the potential for drug interactions. Bictegravir- or dolutegravir-based regimens are preferred in most patients needing a transplant. Consider using tenofovir alafenamide over tenofovir disoproxil fumarate due to the lower risk of affecting renal function and bone mineral density. In general, avoid use of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, cobicistat, protease inhibitors) or CYP3A4 inducing non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (efavirenz, nevirapine, etravirine). If a change in the antiretroviral regimen is necessary, the switch should be completed several weeks before the transplant whenever possible. Renal and hepatic function may fluctuate immediately post-transplant; thus, close monitoring is recommended to ensure appropriate dosing and to avoid potential drug toxicities. Additionally, therapeutic drug monitoring of the immunosuppressive medications should be performed to guide dose adjustments. Make every effort to avoid post-transplant interruption of antiretroviral therapy. If an interruption is necessary, stop all components of the regimen simultaneously and restart treatment as soon as possible.

hepatitis B exacerbation


Severe acute hepatitis B exacerbation has been reported in patients with HBV and HIV coinfection who have discontinued use of lamivudine, and may occur with discontinuation of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine. Close monitoring, both clinical and laboratory, is recommended for several months after stopping treatment with abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine.


renal failure, renal impairment


Abacavir, dolutegravir, lamivudine is not recommended for use in adults with renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute), including renal failure, or in pediatric patients with a similar degree of renal impairment based on age-appropriate renal function assessment. Because this is a fixed-dose combination, the dosage of the individual components cannot be adjusted for impaired renal function. Dolutegravir plasma concentrations are decreased in patients with renal failure, as compared to healthy controls; therefore, use of the drug in this patient population may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Conversely, lamivudine exposures may be increased in patients with renal impairment (CrCl between 30 and 49 mL/minute). Monitor these patients for lamivudine-related hematologic toxicities. If new or worsening neutropenia or anemia develops, substitute the use of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine with the individual drug components to allow for a lamivudine renal dose adjustment.


hepatitis C infection


Patients with an underlying hepatitis C infection may be at increased risk for worsening or development of transaminase elevations with the use of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine. In some cases, the elevations in transaminases are consistent with immune reconstitution syndrome or hepatitis B reactivation.


coronary artery disease


When prescribing abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine, consider the patient's underlying risk of coronary artery disease and take action to minimize all modifiable risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and smoking). HIV guidelines recommend consideration be given to avoiding the use of abacavir-containing regimens in patients with known high cardiovascular risk. Conflicting data have been published regarding the potential for myocardial infarction (MI) in patients receiving treatment with an abacavir-containing regimen. In several prospective, observational, epidemiological studies the use of abacavir was associated with an increased risk of MI. Patients in these studies who started abacavir for the first time had worse initial cardiovascular risk profiles than observed with the other nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) agents; therefore, it can not be ruled out that some of these results could be the result of channeling bias. The authors of these studies speculate that the underlying mechanism for increased risk of cardiovascular disease may be due to an increased propensity for subclinical atherosclerosis to manifest itself clinically as a consequence of the pro-inflammatory potential of abacavir; however, a biological mechanism to explain the potential increase in risk has not been definitely established. In contrast to these observational trials, a sponsor-conducted, pooled analysis of clinical trials showed no excess risk of MI in abacavir-treated subjects as compared with control subjects. Further, a meta-analysis of 26 randomized clinical trials conducted by the FDA failed to reveal an association between treatment with abacavir-containing regimens and development of MI (OR = 1.02; 95% CI 0.56 to 1.84).


psychiatric disorder


Patients with a history of depression or another psychiatric disorder may be at increased risk for psychiatric adverse events. Depression was reported in adult patients treated with abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine in clinical trials. Additionally, cases of suicidal ideation, attempt, behavior, or completion were also reported. These events were observed primarily in patients with a pre-existing history of depression or other psychiatric illness.


breast-feeding


Provide evidence-based, patient-centered counseling to support shared decision-making regarding infant feeding. Inform individuals that use of replacement feeding (i.e., formula or banked pasteurized donor human milk) eliminates the risk of HIV transmission. It is recommended to use replacement feeding for infants and children of lactating people with HIV who are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART) or do not have suppressed viral load during pregnancy and/or at delivery. For those on ART who have achieved and maintained viral suppression during pregnancy (at minimum throughout the third trimester) and postpartum, the transmission risk from breast-feeding is less than 1%, but not zero. Virologically suppressed patients who choose to breast-feed should be supported in this decision. If breast-feeding is chosen, provide counseling about the importance of adherence to therapy and recommend that the infant be exclusively breast-fed for up to 6 months of age, as exclusive breast-feeding has been associated with a lower rate of HIV transmission as compared to mixed feeding (i.e., breast milk and formula). If a viral load is subsequently detected in a breast-feeding person, it is recommended to discontinue or temporarily stop breast-feeding while the viral load is rechecked, causes of viremia are assessed, adherence counseling is reinforced, and the breast-fed infant undergoes HIV nucleic acid testing (NAT). If the repeated viral load is undetectable, a shared decision should be made regarding resumption of breast-feeding. If the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is 200 copies/mL or more, most experts recommend permanent discontinuation of breast-feeding and initiation of a 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. ART(a 1- or 3-drug regimen) for the infant may also be considered if the breast-feeding person's HIV RNA is quantifiable but less than 200 copies/mL; consult an expert for guidance. For breast-feeding individuals who receive a new HIV diagnosis while breast-feeding (acute HIV), it is recommended to immediately transition from breast-feeding to replacement feeding, perform an infant HIV NAT, and initiate 3-drug presumptive ART for the infant. Promptly identify and treat mastitis, thrush, and cracked or bleeding nipples, as these conditions may increase the risk of HIV transmission through breast-feeding. Breast-fed infants should undergo immediate diagnostic and virologic HIV testing. Testing should continue throughout breast-feeding and up to 6 months after cessation of breast-feeding. For expert consultation, care teams may contact the Perinatal HIV Hotline (888-448-8765). Although there is no information regarding the effects of abacavir, dolutegravir, or lamivudine on breast-fed infants or milk production, all 3 drug components are present in human milk. Available data show dolutegravir is found in breast milk at concentrations about 3% of those observed in maternal plasma. In 1 study conducted in Botswana, the mean breast milk-to-plasma drug ratio of abacavir (n = 15) was 0.85. Further, an analysis of 9 breast-feeding infants found detectable plasma drug concentrations in 1 infant. In the Swiss Mother and Child HIV Cohort nested study, abacavir was measurable in 4 breast-fed infants; the relative infant dose was 0.34%. Lamivudine was present in human breast milk during a study involving 20 breast-feeding people with HIV who were administered either 300 mg of lamivudine twice daily as a single agent (n = 10) or lamivudine 150 mg twice daily in combination with zidovudine (n = 10). The mean breast milk concentrations of lamivudine in the respective groups were similar at 1.22 mg/L (range less than 0.5 to 6.09 mg/L) and 0.9 mg/L (range less than 0.5 to 8.2 mg/L). Other antiretroviral medications whose passage into human breast milk have been evaluated include nevirapine, zidovudine, and nelfinavir.


pregnancy


Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. Guidelines recommend the use of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine as an alternative treatment option for HLA-B*5701 negative patients WITHOUT hepatitis B virus (HBV) coinfection who are pregnant or trying to conceive. Data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR), which includes 1,532 first trimester exposures to abacavir, 1,376 first trimester exposures to dolutegravir, and 5,833 first trimester exposures to lamivudine, have shown no difference in the risk of overall major birth defects when compared to the 2.7% background rate among pregnant people in the US. The prevalence of defects for abacavir, dolutegravir, and lamivudine when exposure occurred in the first trimester is 3.1% (95% CI: 2.3 to 4.1), 3.3% (95% CI: 2.4 to 4.4), and 3% (95% CI: 2.6 to 3.5), respectively. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA levels above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Antiretroviral therapy should be provided to all patients during pregnancy, regardless of HIV RNA concentrations or CD4 cell count. Using highly active antiretroviral combination therapy (HAART) to maximally suppress viral replication is the most effective strategy to prevent the development of resistance and to minimize the risk of perinatal transmission. Begin HAART as soon as pregnancy is recognized, or HIV is diagnosed. Guidelines recommend the use of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine as an alternative treatment option for HLA-B*5701 negative patients WITHOUT hepatitis B virus (HBV) coinfection who are pregnant or trying to conceive. Data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR), which includes 1,532 first trimester exposures to abacavir, 1,376 first trimester exposures to dolutegravir, and 5,833 first trimester exposures to lamivudine, have shown no difference in the risk of overall major birth defects when compared to the 2.7% background rate among pregnant people in the US. The prevalence of defects for abacavir, dolutegravir, and lamivudine when exposure occurred in the first trimester is 3.1% (95% CI: 2.3 to 4.1), 3.3% (95% CI: 2.4 to 4.4), and 3% (95% CI: 2.6 to 3.5), respectively. Regular laboratory monitoring is recommended to determine antiretroviral efficacy. Monitor CD4 counts at the initial visit. Patients who have been on HAART for at least 2 years and have consistent viral suppression and CD4 counts consistently greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3 do not need CD4 counts monitored after the initial visit during the pregnancy. However, CD4 counts should be monitored every 3 months during pregnancy for patients on HAART less than 2 years and who have CD4 counts less than 300 cells/mm3, patients with inconsistent adherence, or patients with detectable viral loads. For patients on HAART less than 2 years but have CD4 counts greater than or equal to 300 cells/mm3, monitor CD4 counts every 6 months. Monitor plasma HIV RNA at the initial visit (with review of prior levels), 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing therapy, monthly until undetectable, and then at least every 3 months during pregnancy. Viral load should also be assessed at approximately 36 weeks gestation, or within 4 weeks of planned delivery, to inform decisions regarding mode of delivery, need for intrapartum zidovudine, and optimal treatment for newborns. Perform resistance testing in patients with virologic failure and HIV RNA levels above 200 copies/mL. Conduct resistance testing before starting therapy in treatment-naive patients who have not been previously tested, starting therapy in treatment-experienced patients (including those who have received pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis), modifying therapy during a new pregnancy or when virologic response during pregnancy is suboptimal. DO NOT delay initiation of antiretroviral therapy while waiting for the results of resistance testing; treatment regimens can be modified, if necessary, once the testing results are known. First trimester ultrasound is recommended to confirm gestational age and provide an accurate estimation of gestational age at delivery. A second trimester ultrasound can be used for both anatomical survey and determination of gestational age in those patients not seen until later in gestation. Perform standard glucose screening in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy at 24 to 28 weeks gestation, although it should be noted that some experts would perform earlier screening with ongoing chronic protease inhibitor-based therapy initiated prior to pregnancy, similar to recommendations for patients with high-risk factors for glucose intolerance. Liver function testing is recommended within 2 to 4 weeks after initiating or changing antiretroviral therapy, and approximately every 3 months thereafter during pregnancy (or as needed). All pregnant patients should be counseled about the importance of adherence to their antiretroviral regimen to reduce the potential for development of resistance and perinatal transmission. It is strongly recommended that antiretroviral therapy, once initiated, not be discontinued. If a patient decides to discontinue therapy, a consultation with an HIV specialist is recommended. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antiretroviral therapy; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.


Interactions

Abrocitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with abrocitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acalabrutinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of acalabrutinib and dolutegravir may increase dolutegravir exposure and increase the risk of dolutegravir toxicity. Acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it may inhibit intestinal BCRP. Dolutegravir is a BCRP transporter substrate in vitro.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with adagrasib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Adefovir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing antacids. The chemical structure of these antacids contain aluminum which can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing antacids. The chemical structure of these antacids contain aluminum which can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir. (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing antacids. The chemical structure of these antacids contain magnesium and calcium which can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing antacids. The chemical structure of these antacids contain aluminum which can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir. (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing gastrointestinal medications such as magnesium hydroxide. The chemical structure of these GI drugs that contain polyvalent cations, such as magnesium hydroxide, can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing antacids. The chemical structure of these antacids contain aluminum which can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir. (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing gastrointestinal medications such as magnesium hydroxide. The chemical structure of these GI drugs that contain polyvalent cations, such as magnesium hydroxide, can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing antacids. The chemical structure of these antacids contain aluminum which can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir. (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing antacids. The chemical structure of these antacids contain magnesium which can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with amiodarone. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with apalutamide; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer and dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if dolutegravir and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and may increase plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. When administered as a single oral or single intravenous dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak and did not result in a clinically significant increase in the AUC of a sensitive substrate.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with armodafinil; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with asciminib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and asciminib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when atazanavir is administered with dolutegravir as there is a potential for elevated dolutegravir concentrations. Dolutegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and uridine glucuronyltransferase (UGT). Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and UGT1A1.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when atazanavir is administered with dolutegravir as there is a potential for elevated dolutegravir concentrations. Dolutegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and uridine glucuronyltransferase (UGT). Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and UGT1A1. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with dolutegravir as there is a potential for elevated dolutegravir concentrations. Dolutegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of P-gp.
Atidarsagene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with avacopan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with azithromycin. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with belumosudil. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP, P-gp, and UGT1A1 substrate and belumosudil is a BCRP, P-gp, and UGT1A1 inhibitor.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with berotralstat. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Betibeglogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Bexarotene: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with bexarotene; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Bexarotene is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with lenacapavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor.
Bortezomib: (Minor) Monitor patients for the development of peripheral neuropathy when receiving bortezomib in combination with other drugs that can cause peripheral neuropathy like lamivudine; the risk of peripheral neuropathy may be additive.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with bosentan; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Bosentan is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with brigatinib is necessary. Dolutegravir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP. Brigatinib inhibits both P-gp and BCRP in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of substrates of these transporters.
Calcium Acetate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Calcium Chloride: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Calcium Gluconate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Calcium: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with cannabidiol. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Capivasertib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with capivasertib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a substrate of UGT1A1; capivasertib is an UGT1A1 inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with capmatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dolutegravir and carbamazepine in integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI)-experienced patients with INSTI-associated resistance substitutions or clinically suspected INSTI resistance. When used in other patients, increase the dose of dolutegravir to twice daily when administered with carbamazepine. For patients receiving dolutegravir-containing, fixed-dose combination product, give an additional dolutegravir 50 mg dose separated by 12 hours from the combination product. Concomitant use may decrease dolutegravir exposure. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with carbamazepine decreased dolutegravir exposure by approximately 50%.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Increased concentrations of dolutegravir may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate in vitro.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ceritinib is necessary. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Chromium: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with clobazam; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Clobazam is a weak inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with dolutegravir as there is a potential for elevated dolutegravir concentrations. Dolutegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of P-gp.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with conivaptan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Dalfampridine: (Moderate) Concurrent treatment with OCT2 inhibitors, such as dolutegravir, may cause increased exposure to dalfampridine. Elevated levels of dalfampridine increase the risk of seizures. The potential benefits of taking dolutegravir concurrently with dalfampridine should be considered against the risk of seizures.
Danicopan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with danicopan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and danicopan is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Daraxonrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with daraxonrasib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and daraxonrasib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with daridorexant. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and daridorexant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Darolutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with darolutamide is necessary. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and darolutamide is a BCRP inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with dolutegravir as there is a potential for elevated dolutegravir concentrations. Dolutegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of P-gp.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with dolutegravir as there is a potential for elevated dolutegravir concentrations. Dolutegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of P-gp.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Dofetilide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dolutegravir with dofetilide is contraindicated due of the potential for serious and life-threatening adverse events, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dolutegravir inhibits the renal organic cation transporter OCT2, dofetilide is eliminated via this transporter. If coadministered, the plasma concentration of dofetilide may increase. (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion, such as lamivudine, should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of islatravir and lamivudine is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased islatravir exposure, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Concomitant use may interfere with the conversion of islatravir to its active form, islatravir-triphosphate (ISL-TP). Islatravir is activated via cellular kinases; lamivudine is a deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) substrate and may compete for this activation pathway. Concomitant use with lamivudine decreased ISL-TP overall exposure by 87%.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with duvelisib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate; duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir with efavirenz or efavirenz-containing products (e.g., efavirenz; emtricitabine; tenofovir) in integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI)-experienced patients with INSTI-associated resistance substitutions or clinically suspected INSTI resistance. For treatment-naive or treatment-experienced, but INSTI-naive, adult and pediatric patients, the dose of dolutegravir should be increased to twice daily when administered with efavirenz. Use of these drugs together may result in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is an inducer of CYP3A4.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine. (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir with efavirenz or efavirenz-containing products (e.g., efavirenz; emtricitabine; tenofovir) in integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI)-experienced patients with INSTI-associated resistance substitutions or clinically suspected INSTI resistance. For treatment-naive or treatment-experienced, but INSTI-naive, adult and pediatric patients, the dose of dolutegravir should be increased to twice daily when administered with efavirenz. Use of these drugs together may result in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is an inducer of CYP3A4.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir with efavirenz or efavirenz-containing products (e.g., efavirenz; emtricitabine; tenofovir) in integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI)-experienced patients with INSTI-associated resistance substitutions or clinically suspected INSTI resistance. For treatment-naive or treatment-experienced, but INSTI-naive, adult and pediatric patients, the dose of dolutegravir should be increased to twice daily when administered with efavirenz. Use of these drugs together may result in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is an inducer of CYP3A4.
Elacestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with elacestrant. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp and elacestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with elagolix; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Elagolix is a weak to moderate inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with elagolix; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Elagolix is a weak to moderate inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Elivaldogene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with dolutegravir as there is a potential for elevated dolutegravir concentrations. Dolutegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of P-gp.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with dolutegravir as there is a potential for elevated dolutegravir concentrations. Dolutegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of P-gp.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Emtricitabine: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not coadminister lamivudine, 3TC-containing products and emtricitabine-containing products due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with enasidenib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and enasidenib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity or decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with encorafenib. Concurrent use may increase or decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A and BCRP substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer and BCRP inhibitor. The net effect on dolutegravir exposure is unknown.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ensitrelvir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with enzalutamide; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer and dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Erdafitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with erdafitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking abacavir. Abacavir is metabolized via alcohol dehydrogenase. Alcohol decreases the elimination of abacavir causing an increase in overall exposure to abacavir. In a study involving HIV-infected men, coadministration of alcohol and abacavir resulted in a 41% increase in abacavir AUC and a 26% increase in abacavir half-life. In males, abacavir had no effect on the pharmacokinetic properties of alcohol; this interaction has not been studied in females. Abacavir has no effect on the pharmacokinetic properties of alcohol.
Etravirine: (Major) Coadministration of dolutegravir with etravirine should be avoided, unless also administered with atazanavir/ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, or lopinavir/ritonavir. When administered with etravirine (a CYP3A4 inducer), the plasma concentration of dolutegravir (a CYP3A4 substrate) is significantly reduced; however, this effect is diminished by the presence of one of the above mentioned protease inhibitors.
Etuvetidigene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV), such as etuvetidigene autotemcel. Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization and continue to hold therapy until at least 7 days after etuvetidigene autotemcel infusion; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may decrease etuvetidigene autotemcel efficacy by reducing LVV activity and interfering with gene therapy manufacturing.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with fedratinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate; fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A and UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A and UGT inducer.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir and fosamprenavir boosted with ritonavir in integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI)-experienced patients with INSTI-associated resistance substitutions or clinically suspected INSTI resistance. For INSTI-naive adult and pediatric patients, the dose of dolutegravir should be increased to twice daily when administered with fosamprenavir/ritonavir. Use of these drugs together results in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir with phenytoin or fosphenytoin, as coadministration may result in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Phenytoin is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with fostamatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with fostemsavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and fostemsavir is a BCRP inhibitor.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with gilteritinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and gilteritinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during dolutegravir treatment due to the risk for increased dolutegravir exposure and adverse reactions. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with dolutegravir, a CYP3A substrate, as dolutegravir toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Imlunestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Beta-1a: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Beta-1b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferon Gamma-1b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Interferons: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Iron: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with dolutegravir may result in increased serum concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4 and drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministered with itraconazole. Concomitant use may increase dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is an in vitro substrate of the drug transporters P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP); itraconazole inhibits both P-gp and BCRP.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with lasmiditan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lazertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with lazertinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and lazertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with lenacapavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor.
Leniolisib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with leniolisib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and leniolisib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Lentivirus vector therapy (selected): (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of dolutegravir may occur if given with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Dolutegravir is partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levacetylleucine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with levacetylleucine. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with lonafarnib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and lonafarnib is a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown.
Lorlatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate as well as a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and a P-gp inducer.
Lovotibeglogene autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with lumacaftor; ivacaftor; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Dolutegravir is partially metabolized by CYP3A and, in vitro, is a substrate for the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) drug transporter. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce and/or inhibit P-gp.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with lumacaftor; ivacaftor; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Dolutegravir is partially metabolized by CYP3A and, in vitro, is a substrate for the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) drug transporter. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce and/or inhibit P-gp.
Magnesium Citrate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing laxatives such as magnesium citrate. The chemical structure contains polyvalent cations which can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking magnesium citrate simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing gastrointestinal medications such as magnesium hydroxide. The chemical structure of these GI drugs that contain polyvalent cations, such as magnesium hydroxide, can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing antacids. The chemical structure of these antacids contain magnesium and calcium which can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir. (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing antacids. The chemical structure of these antacids contain magnesium which can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with maribavir. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and maribavir is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Marnetegragene Autotemcel: (Major) Avoid the use of antiretroviral medications in patients who are receiving gene therapy that utilizes a lentivirus vector (LVV). Discontinue antiretrovirals at least 1 month prior to stem cell mobilization; a longer washout period may be required based on the therapeutic and pharmacokinetic half-life of the antiretroviral. Antiretroviral medications may reduce LVV activity and interfere with gene therapy manufacturing.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with mavorixafor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Memantine: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Meropenem: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with meropenem. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and meropenem is a P-gp inhibitor.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with meropenem. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and meropenem is a P-gp inhibitor.
metFORMIN: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Methadone: (Moderate) In a study of 11 adult HIV-infected subjects receiving methadone maintenance therapy (40 to 90 mg/day) and abacavir 600 mg twice daily (twice the current recommended dose), methadone clearance increased by 22% (6% to 42%). While this interaction will not require dosage adjustment in the majority of patients, a small number of patients may require increased doses of methadone. In addition, a significant decrease in abacavir Cmax (34%) and increase in Tmax (67%) were noted, but no changes in overall abacavir clearance or half-life were reported. The clinical significance regarding abacavir therapy is not known.
Midostaurin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with mitapivat. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with mitotane; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer and dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with modafinil; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Modafinil is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Momelotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with momelotinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and momelotinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Neratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with neratinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and neratinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nevirapine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of nevirapine and dolutegravir. Concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of dolutegravir and there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with nirogacestat. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with orforglipron. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and orforglipron is a BCRP inhibitor.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with oritavancin; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Dolutegravir is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Orlistat: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Osimertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osimertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and osimertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Oteseconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with oteseconazole. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and oteseconazole is a BCRP inhibitor.
OXcarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir with oxcarbazepine, as coadministration may result in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Oxcarbazepine is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy or increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with pacritinib. Concomitant use may decrease or increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer and BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Peginterferon beta-1a: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir with phenobarbital, as coadministration may result in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Phenobarbital is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir with phenobarbital, as coadministration may result in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Phenobarbital is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when dolutegravir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased dolutegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir with phenytoin, as coadministration may result in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Phenytoin is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Major) If these drugs are used in combination, the total daily dose of metformin must not exceed 1,000 mg/day. Dolutegravir may increase exposure to metformin. Increased exposure to metformin may increase the risk for hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, and potentially increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use of dolutegravir with metformin. Close monitoring of blood glucose and patient clinical status (gastrointestinal side effects, renal function, electrolytes and acid-base balance) is recommended. When stopping dolutegravir, the metformin dose may need to be adjusted. In drug interaction studies, dolutegravir increased both the Cmax and AUC of metformin when metformin 500 mg PO twice daily was coadministered. Dolutegravir inhibits common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE1 and MATE2k]). (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with pirtobrutinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pirtobrutinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Polysaccharide-Iron Complex: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Pretomanid: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with primaquine. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and primaquine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir with primidone, as coadministration may result in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Primidone is metabolized to phenobarbital, which is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion such as procainamide may compete with lamivudine for common renal tubular transport systems, thus possibly decreasing the elimination of one of the drugs. Although theoretical, careful patient monitoring of the response to lamivudine and/or procainamide is recommended to individualize dosage. In selected individuals, procainamide serum concentration monitoring may be appropriate.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Quizartinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with quizartinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Regorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with regorafenib is necessary. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and regorafenib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with relacorilant. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with remibrutinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Resmetirom: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with resmetirom. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and resmetirom is a BCRP inhibitor.
Ribavirin: (Moderate) Use abacavir with ribavirin and interferon with caution and closely monitor for hepatic decompensation and anemia. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh greater than 6). Hepatic decompensation (some fatal) has occurred in HCV/HIV coinfected patients who received both ribavirin/interferon and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) therapies. (Moderate) Use lamivudine with ribavirin and interferon with caution and closely monitor for hepatic decompensation and anemia. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh greater than 6). Hepatic decompensation (some fatal) has occurred in HCV/HIV coinfected patients who received both ribavirin/interferon and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) therapies. In addition, ribavirin has been shown in cell culture to inhibit phosphorylation of lamivudine, which could lead to decreased antiretroviral activity; however, while ribavirin inhibits the phosphorylation reactions required to activate lamivudine, no evidence of a pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction has been observed.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ribociclib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate inhibitor at doses of 400 mg/day.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ribociclib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate inhibitor at doses of 400 mg/day.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dolutegravir and rifampin in integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI)-experienced patients with INSTI-associated resistance substitutions or clinically suspected INSTI resistance. When used in other patients, increase the dose of dolutegravir to twice daily when administered with rifampin. For patients receiving a dolutegravir-containing, fixed-dose combination product, give an additional dolutegravir 50 mg dose separated by 12 hours from the combination product. Concomitant use may decrease dolutegravir exposure. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased dolutegravir exposure by approximately 50%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of rifapentine and dolutegravir in integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI)-experienced patients with INSTI-associated resistance substitutions or clinically suspected INSTI resistance who are receiving twice daily doses of dolutegravir. Treatment-naive or treatment-experienced, but INSTI-naive patients receiving dolutegravir once daily may receive once weekly doses of rifapentine with caution. Alternatively, daily doses of rifapentine may be administered for a short period of time (1 month) to virologically suppressed patients on dolutegravir if the dolutegravir dose is increased from 50 mg daily to 50 mg twice daily. This increased dolutegravir dose must continue throughout the 1-month treatment period and for 14 days after completion of rifapentine; after completion of the rifapentine course, dolutegravir must be switched back to once daily dosing. Monitor for virologic efficacy if these drugs are administered concurrently. In a drug interaction study, administration of rifapentine (900 mg once weekly) decreased the AUC and trough concentration of dolutegravir by 26% and 47%, respectively. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for dolutegravir-related adverse effects during concomitant use with rilzabrutinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A, BCRP, and P-gp inhibitor.
Riociguat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in riociguat-related adverse effects like hypotension if concomitant use with abacavir is necessary. Consider a riociguat dose reduction in patients who may not tolerate the hypotensive effect of riociguat. Concomitant use of riociguat and abacavir may increase riociguat exposure although the magnitude of increase is unknown. Riociguat is a CYP1A1 substrate; abacavir may inhibit CYP1A1.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering abacavir and ritonavir concurrently. Ritonavir appears to induce glucuronosyl transferase, and therefore, has the potential to reduce plasma concentrations of drugs that undergo glucuronidation, such as abacavir. The clinical significance of the potential for this interaction is unknown.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with selpercatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and selpercatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with sevabertinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing iron if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing iron can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with taurursodiol. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
SORAfenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sorafenib is necessary. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and UGT1A1 substrate. Sorafenib inhibits both P-gp and UGT1A1 in vitro, and may increase the concentrations of concomitantly administered drugs that are P-gp or UGT1A1 substrates.
Sorbitol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lamivudine oral solution and sorbitol if possible due to sorbitol dose-dependent reduction in lamivudine exposure. An all-tablet regimen should be used when possible to avoid a potential interaction with sorbitol. Consider more frequent monitoring of viral load when treating with lamivudine oral solution. In a drug interaction study in 16 healthy adult patients, coadministration of a single 300 mg dose of lamivudine oral solution with sorbitol 3.2 g, 10.2 g, or 13.4 g resulted in dose-dependent decreases of 20%, 39%, and 44% in the AUC24 and 28%, 52%, and 55% in the Cmax of lamivudine.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy or increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with sotorasib. Concurrent use may alter the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4, BCRP, and P-gp substrate; sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with sparsentan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir with St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum as coadministration may result in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. St. John's Wort is an inducer of CYP3A, dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Sucralfate: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking sucralfate. The chemical structure of sucralfate contains aluminum, which can bind dolutegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Tafamidis: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of tafamidis and dolutegravir as coadministration may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir increasing the risk of adverse effects. Dolutegravir is a substrate of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) and tafamidis is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tedizolid: (Moderate) If possible, stop use of dolutegravir temporarily during treatment with oral tedizolid. If coadministration cannot be avoided, closely monitor for dolutegravir-associated adverse events. Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be increased when dolutegravir is administered concurrently with oral tedizolid. Dolutegravir is a in vitro substrate of the Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP); oral tedizolid inhibits BCRP in the intestine.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dolutegravir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with temsirolimus is necessary. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of dolutegravir.
Tepotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with tepotinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with ticagrelor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and ticagrelor is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of dolutegravir and tipranavir boosted with ritonavir in integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI)-experienced patients with INSTI-associated resistance substitutions or clinically suspected INSTI resistance. For treatment-naive or treatment-experienced, but INSTI-naive, adult and pediatric patients, the dose of dolutegravir should be increased to twice daily when administered with tipranavir/ritonavir. Use of these drugs together results in decreased dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is a substrate of uridine glucuronyltransferase (UGT), P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and CYP3A4 (minor). Tipranavir is an inducer of P-gp and inhibitor of CYP3A4; while ritonavir is an inducer of UGT, an inhibitor of P-gp, and a mixed inducer/inhibitor of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of tipranavir and ritonavir with abacavir results in decreased abacavir concentrations. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, and no recommendations for abacavir dosage adjustments are available.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when dolutegravir is administered with topiramate as there is a potential for decreased dolutegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Topiramate is not extensively metabolized, but is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with tucatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor.
Vadadustat: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with vadadustat. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and vadadustat is a BCRP inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Vepdegestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for dolutegravir toxicity if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and UGT1A9 substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp and UGT1A9 inhibitor.
Vimseltinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with vimseltinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and vimseltinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with voclosporin. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of voriconazole with dolutegravir is necessary, as the systemic exposure of dolutegravir may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dolutegravir is metabolized by UGT1A1 with some contribution from CYP3A.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with voxelotor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of lamivudine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lamivudine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with xanomeline. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Zongertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with zongertinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and zongertinib is a BCRP inhibitor.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: This section discusses adverse reactions reported with the combination products Triumeq and Triumeq PD. Refer to the individual monographs of abacavir, dolutegravir or lamivudine for specific information concerning adverse events related to the individual agents.

anxiety, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, insomnia, lethargy, nightmares, paresthesias, seizures, suicidal ideation


Neurologic adverse events that have been reported with treatment with abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine during clinical trials include abnormal dreams or nightmares (less than 1%), depression (1%), dizziness (less than 1%), fatigue (2%), headache (2%), insomnia (3%), lethargy (less than 2%), and somnolence (less than 2%). Suicidal ideation, attempt, behavior, or completion was reported in less than 2% of patients. These events were observed primarily in patients with a pre-existing history of depression or other psychiatric illness. Paresthesias, seizures, and anxiety have been reported with one or more of the individual components in postmarketing use. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastroesophageal reflux, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting, weight gain


Gastrointestinal adverse events experienced by less than 2% of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine-treated patients during clinical trials included abdominal pain, distention, or discomfort, anorexia, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastroesophageal reflux, and vomiting. Diarrhea and nausea were reported in less than 1% of patients. Stomatitis and weight gain have been reported in postmarketing surveillance. Data from postmarketing trials found treatment-naive patients who started an integrase inhibitor-containing regimen (such as abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine) gained more weight than patients who began a protease inhibitor- or NNRTI-based regimen. Among agents within the integrase inhibitor class, the mean increase in weight from baseline was similar for dolutegravir and bictegravir (approximately 3.5 kg) and lower for elvitegravir. Predictors and mechanisms for the increase in weight are still unclear; however, the weight gain appears to disproportionately affect females, Hispanic patients, and Black patients (particularly Black women). It is unknown whether the increase in weight is associated with significant cardio-metabolic risks or if it is reversible upon treatment discontinuation.


alopecia, erythema multiforme, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Rash and pruritus were reported by less than 1% and less than 2%, respectively, of patient receiving treatment with abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine during clinical trials. Other dermatologic adverse events reported with postmarketing use include alopecia, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and urticaria. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarket reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


anemia, aplastic anemia, elevated creatine kinase, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, lymphadenopathy, myalgia, neutropenia, rhabdomyolysis, sideroblastic anemia, weakness


During clinical trials, recipients of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine experienced a mean increase in serum creatinine concentrations of 0.14 mg/dL over baseline, and less than 2% developed renal impairment. The change in serum creatinine was observed within the first 4 weeks of treatment and remained stable through 144 weeks. This increase occurs as a result of dolutegravir inhibiting tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting renal glomerular function. Other laboratory abnormalities reported by recipients of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine during clinical trials included elevated hepatic enzymes (2.5 to 5 times ULN, 3%; more than 5 times ULN, 1%), elevated creatine kinase (10 times or more ULN, 7%), and lipase (more than 3 times ULN, 5%), hyperglycemia (more than 250 mg/dL, 2%), and neutropenia (0.75 to 0.99 x 10^9, 4%; less than 0.75 x 10^9, 3%). Drug recipients also experienced a mean increase in total cholesterol and triglycerides over baseline levels of 24 mg/dL and 13.6 mg/dL, respectively; hypertriglyceridemia was reported in less than 2% of patients. In a study of 57 pediatric patients weighing 6 to 39 kg, the overall safety profile of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine was similar to that observed in adults. In this pediatric study, the most common adverse reactions were classified as laboratory abnormalities and included decreased glomerular filtration rate (23%, n = 13), increased blood creatinine (18%, n = 10), and increased ALT (5%, n = 3). Two pediatric patients experienced Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions. One had Grade 3 increased blood creatinine and Grade 3 decreased glomerular filtration rate, and the other had drug-induced liver injury with Grade 4 increased ALT and AST. Postmarketing cases of muscle weakness, myalgia and rhabdomyolysis (potentially associated with elevated CK), anemia (including pure red cell aplasia and severe anemia progressing on therapy), aplastic anemia, sideroblastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, and hyperlactemia have been reported.


hepatitis B exacerbation


There have been postmarketing reports of severe acute hepatitis B exacerbation in patients with HBV and HIV coinfection following the discontinuation of lamivudine therapy; close monitoring of clinical signs and symptoms, including laboratory monitoring, are recommended for several months following discontinuation. If appropriate, initiation of anti-HBV therapy may be warranted, especially in patients with advanced liver disease or cirrhosis since exacerbation of hepatitis may result in hepatic decompensation and liver failure.


hepatic failure, hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity, lactic acidosis, pancreatitis, splenomegaly, steatosis


Lactic acidosis and severe hepatotoxicity, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs such as abacavir and lamivudine. Typically, these adverse reactions present with symptoms such as enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) and fatty liver (steatosis), even in the absence of significant elevations in liver transaminases. At risk patients may include females and patients who are obese. Additionally, cases of hepatotoxicity, including elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, and acute hepatic failure, have been reported in patients (including pediatric patients) receiving a dolutegravir-containing regimen who had no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors. Pancreatitis, splenomegaly, and drug-induced liver injury requiring liver transplant have been reported with one or more of the individual components during postmarketing use. Prompt discontinuation of treatment is recommended if clinical or laboratory findings suggest lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity.


angioedema, arthralgia, conjunctivitis, cough, dyspnea, eosinophilia, fever, hypotension, lymphopenia, maculopapular rash, malaise, oral ulceration, pharyngitis, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, wheezing


Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, including fatal reactions, have occurred in recipients of abacavir and dolutegravir containing regimens. Suspected Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) have been reported in patients receiving abacavir in combination with medications known to be associated with SJS and TEN; because of the overlap of clinical signs and symptoms between hypersensitivity to abacavir and SJS and TEN and the possibility of multiple drug sensitivities in some patients, abacavir should be discontinued and not restarted in such cases. Signs and symptoms of abacavir hypersensitivity include fatigue, fever, malaise, skin rash, gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting, and respiratory symptoms including pharyngitis, dyspnea, or cough. Respiratory symptoms occur in approximately 20% of patients with abacavir hypersensitivity reactions. Wheezing occur infrequently during abacavir hypersensitivity reactions. Other signs and symptoms include lethargy, headache, myolysis, myalgia, edema, chest x-ray abnormalities, arthralgia, and paresthesias. Physical findings include lymphadenopathy, mucous membrane lesions (conjunctivitis and oral ulceration), and rash. The rash, if present, usually appears as a maculopapular rash or urticarial rash (urticaria) but may be variable in appearance. There have been reports of erythema multiforme. Laboratory findings include elevated hepatic enzymes, elevated creatine kinase, increased creatinine, and lymphopenia. Signs and symptoms associated with dolutegravir hypersensitivity include severe rash, fever, malaise, fatigue, arthralgia, myalgia, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, angioedema, facial edema, hepatitis, eosinophilia, and breathing difficulty or wheezing. Deaths have been reported in patients receiving abacavir who were initially diagnosed with an acute respiratory disease (pneumonia, bronchitis, or flu-like illness) who were later recognized to have had a hypersensitivity reaction to abacavir that included respiratory symptoms. A delay in diagnosis of abacavir or dolutegravir hypersensitivity can result in the drug being continued or reintroduced, leading to more severe hypersensitivity reactions including, life-threatening hypotension, anaphylactoid reactions, hepatic failure, renal failure (unspecified), acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), respiratory arrest, and death. Symptoms usually appear within the first 6 weeks of treatment, although these reactions may occur at any time during therapy. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported upon reintroduction of abacavir therapy that has been discontinued for other medical reasons. In a minority of these patients, hypersensitivity occurred days or weeks after reintroduction of abacavir treatment. Symptoms worsen with continued therapy but often resolve upon discontinuation of the drug. Patients developing signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity should discontinue use of abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine as soon as a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected. In patients presenting with symptoms of acute respiratory disease and other symptoms listed above, a hypersensitivity reaction should be suspected even if alternative respiratory diagnoses (i.e., pneumonia, bronchitis, pharyngitis, or flu-like illness) are possible. If the clinical presentation of an acute illness cannot be clearly differentiated from a hypersensitivity reaction, the drug should be permanently discontinued. Patients should never be restarted on any abacavir or dolutegravir containing product following a hypersensitivity reaction because more severe symptoms will recur within hours of administration and may include life-threatening hypotension and death. To facilitate reporting of hypersensitivity reactions and collection of information on each case, healthcare professionals should report all hypersensitivity reactions to the FDA MedWatch program at (800) FDA-1088.


myocardial infarction


Abacavir treatment was linked with the development of myocardial infarction (MI) in several prospective, observational, epidemiologic trial. In contrast to these observational trials, a sponsor-conducted, pooled analysis of clinical trials showed no excess risk of MI in abacavir-treated subjects as compared with control subjects. A meta-analysis of 26 randomized clinical trials conducted by the FDA failed to reveal an association between treatment with abacavir-containing regimens and development of MI (OR = 1.02; 95% CI: 0.56 to 1.84). In light of the conflicting data, caution is advised when prescribing abacavir to patients with pre-existing coronary heart disease. Healthcare providers are encouraged to minimize a patient's modifiable risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and smoking) prior to prescribing.


autoimmune disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, immune reconstitution syndrome


Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy. During the initial phase of HIV treatment, patients whose immune system responds to abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine therapy may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), cytomegalovirus (CMV), Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis (TB)), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. In addition, autoimmune disease (including Graves' disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, polymyositis, and autoimmune hepatitis) may also develop; the time to onset is variable and may occur months after treatment initiation.


peripheral neuropathy


Patients with peripheral neuropathy receiving abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine can experience exacerbations during therapy due to the lamivudine component. In one case report involving a 57-year-old male with mild neuropathy, treatment with lamivudine was associated with a fatal peripheral neuropathy exacerbation. The patient had received lamivudine 300 mg daily for treatment of hepatitis. After 3 months of treatment, the patient presented with dysphonia and progressive muscle weakness. Later, the patient developed tetraparesis followed by acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation. The patient then went into sudden cardiac arrest. Treatment with lamivudine was stopped, and the neuropathy and respiratory capacity improved; however, the patient ultimately died.


Description

Abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine is indicated for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection. This combination product consists of 1 integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) and 2 nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). The product is available as Triumeq (oral tablet containing 600 mg abacavir, 50 mg dolutegravir, 300 mg lamivudine) and Triumeq PD (tablet for oral suspension containing 60 mg abacavir, 5 mg dolutegravir, 30 mg lamivudine). Due to differing pharmacokinetic profiles of the dolutegravir component, Triumeq and Triumeq PD cannot be interchanged on a mg-per-mg basis. The FDA approved package labeling contains Black Box Warnings for fatal hypersensitivity reactions associated with abacavir and exacerbations of hepatitis B associated with discontinuation of lamivudine in patients with both hepatitis B and HIV. Abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine was FDA-approved in 2014.

Mechanism Of Action

Abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine is active against infections caused by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Combination therapy targets different points in the life cycle of HIV, reducing the ability of HIV to mutate into drug-resistant strains.
Abacavir: Intracellularly, abacavir is converted by cellular enzymes to the active metabolite carbovir triphosphate. Carbovir triphosphate is an analog of deoxyguanosine-5'-triphosphate (dGTP). Carbovir triphosphate inhibits the activity of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase both by competing with the natural substrate dGTP and by its incorporation into viral DNA. The lack of a 3'-hydroxyl group in the incorporated nucleoside analog prevents the formation of the 5' to 3' phosphodiester linkage essential for DNA chain elongation, and therefore, the viral DNA growth is inhibited.
Lamivudine: Intracellularly, lamivudine is phosphorylated to produce the active 5'-triphosphate metabolite, lamivudine triphosphate (3TC-TP). The primary mode of action of 3TC-TP is inhibition of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase via viral DNA chain termination after incorporation of the nucleotide analog.
Dolutegravir: Antiviral activity results from inhibiting HIV integrase, one of the three enzymes required for viral replication. The integration of HIV into cellular DNA is a multi-step process. The first reaction is the "3'-processing" step. During 3'-processing, HIV integrase removes two or three nucleotides from each 3' end of the viral DNA by endonucleolytic processing. This prepares the viral DNA for the next step, the "strand transfer" reaction. In the strand transfer step, integrase inserts the 3' ends of viral DNA into the cellular (target) DNA. Dolutegravir interferes with the strand transfer reaction by displacing the viral DNA from the active site; thereby preventing integration of reverse-transcribed viral DNA into the host genome and blocking the formation of the HIV provirus.
 
Pharmacodynamics
Abacavir: In cell cultures, the 50% effective concentration (EC50) of abacavir for HIV-1 and HIV-2 ranged from 70 to 5,800 nM and 24 to 490 nM, respectively.
Lamivudine: In cell cultures, EC50 values for lamivudine ranged from 3 to 15,000 nM for HIV-1 and 3 to 120 nM for HIV-2 isolates.
Dolutegravir: In cell cultures, the mean EC50 for HIV-1 was 0.5 nM in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and 2.1 nM in MT-4 cells. The EC50 values against HIV-2 in PBMC ranged from 0.09 to 0.61 nM.
 
Resistance
The combination of abacavir and lamivudine has demonstrated decreased activity against viruses with certain viral mutations, including M184V/I, K65R, L74V, and Y115F. Decreases in dolutegravir susceptibility have been observed in HIV-1 with the following amino acid substitutions: E92Q, G118R, S153F, S153Y, G193E, and R263K. Cross-resistance between abacavir; lamivudine and other nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors has been observed in strains of HIV-1 containing multiple reverse transcriptase mutations. Cross-resistance between abacavir; lamivudine and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors or HIV protease inhibitors is unlikely because of different binding sites on reverse transcriptase and different target enzymes. Cross-resistance to dolutegravir has not been observed in reverse transcriptase inhibitor-resistant nor protease inhibitor-resistant strains; however, decreased dolutegravir susceptibility has occurred in integrase stand transfer inhibitor-resistant HIV-1 and HIV-2 strains.

Pharmacokinetics

Abacavir; dolutegravir; lamivudine is administered orally.
Abacavir: Once in the systemic circulation, abacavir distributes into extravascular space. Protein binding is approximately 50% and is independent of concentration. Based on radiolabeled studies, the drug readily distributes into erythrocytes. In humans, abacavir is not significantly metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes. The primary routes of elimination of abacavir are metabolism by alcohol dehydrogenase (to form the 5'-carboxylic acid) and glucuronyl transferase (to form the 5'-glucuronide). The metabolites have no antiviral activity. Elimination of abacavir was quantified in a mass balance study after administration of a 600-mg dose of 14C-abacavir: 83% of the radioactivity was recovered in urine, 1.2% as unchanged drug, 30% as the 5'-carboxylic acid metabolite, 36% as the 5'-glucuronide metabolite, and 15% as unidentified minor metabolites. Fecal elimination accounted for 16% of the dose. In single-dose studies, the observed elimination half-life was 1.54 +/- 0.63 hours.
Lamivudine: Once in systemic circulation, lamivudine is less than 36% bound to human plasma proteins. The apparent volume of distribution after intravenous administration of lamivudine is 1.3 +/- 0.4 L/kg, suggesting the drug distributes into extravascular spaces. This volume of distribution is independent of dose and does not correlate with body weight. Metabolism is a minor route of elimination, with the only known metabolite being the trans-sulfoxide metabolite (approximately 5% of an oral dose after 12 hours). The majority of a lamivudine dose (approximately 70%) is excreted unchanged in the urine by active organic cationic secretion. In most single-dose studies with plasma sampling up to 48 or 72 hours after dosing, the observed mean elimination half-life ranged from 13 to 19 hours.
Dolutegravir: The drug is highly protein bound (98.9% or more), with an estimated volume of distribution of 17.4 L. Although the clinical relevance has not been established, dolutegravir distributes into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) at a median concentration of 13 ng/mL (range, 3 to 18 ng/mL) 2 to 6 hours postdose. Metabolism occurs via UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)1A1 (major) and by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A (minor). The terminal half-life is approximately 14 hours, with more than half of the total dose (53%) excreted unchanged in the feces. Excretion in the urine accounts for 31% of the total dose; however, less than 1% of the renally eliminated drug is unchanged.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A1, CYP3A4, UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A9, P-gp, BCRP, OCT2, MATE1
Data from in vitro studies show abacavir has the potential to inhibit CYP1A1 and the limited potential to inhibit CYP3A4. Lamivudine does not inhibit or induce CYP3A4. Abacavir and lamivudine do not inhibit or induce other CYP isoenzymes (e.g., CYP2C9 and CYP2D6). Similarly, abacavir and lamivudine at therapeutic drug exposures are not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of substrates of the following drug transporters: organic anion transporter polypeptide (OATP)1B1/3, breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), P-glycoprotein (P-gp), organic cation transporter (OCT)1, OCT2, OCT3 (lamivudine only), or multidrug and toxic extrusion protein (MATE)1 and MATE2-K.
Dolutegravir is metabolized by UGT1A1 with some contribution from CYP3A4. When administered with atazanavir, an inhibitor of UGT1A1, the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of dolutegravir increased by 50%, and the systemic concentration (AUC) increased by 91%; however, no dolutegravir dosage adjustment was recommended. Dolutegravir is a substrate, in vitro, for the enzymes UGT1A3 and UGT1A9. It is also a substrate, in vitro, for the transporters P-gp and BCRP. It is an inhibitor of renal OCT2 and potentially MATE1. Dolutegravir is an inhibitor of the renal organic anion transporters OAT1 and OAT3 in vitro; however, in vivo, dolutegravir did not alter the plasma concentrations of tenofovir, which is a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3. The drug does not inhibit the following: CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A, UGT1A1, UGT2B7, P-gp, BCRP, bile salt export pump (BSEP), OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, multidrug resistant protein (MRP)2, or MRP4. Additionally, the drug does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, or CYP3A4.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Triumeq and Triumeq PD are bioequivalent for the abacavir and lamivudine components, but not for the dolutegravir component. The relative dolutegravir bioavailability of Triumeq PD is approximately 1.7-fold higher than Triumeq; therefore, the 2 dosage forms are NOT interchangeable on a mg-per-mg basis. Triumeq PD is NOT indicated for use in adults or patients weighing 25 kg or more.
Abacavir: The drug is rapidly absorbed with a bioavailability of about 83% for the tablets. Administration of Triumeq to healthy adults with a high-fat meal (53% fat, 869 calories) decreased the Cmax by 23%. Administration of Triumeq PD to healthy adults with a high-fat meal (50% fat, 917 calories) resulted in a 55% decrease in the Cmax; the AUC was unaffected.
Lamivudine: Absorption is rapid, with a mean absolute bioavailability of approximately 85%. Food has no significant effect on systemic exposure of Triumeq. Administration of Triumeq PD to healthy adults with a high-fat meal (50% fat, 917 calories) resulted in a 36% decrease in the Cmax; the AUC was unaffected.
Dolutegravir: The absolute bioavailability is unknown. Peak plasma concentrations are obtained 2 to 3 hours after an oral dose, with steady-state concentrations achieved within 5 days. Administration of Triumeq to healthy adults with a high-fat meal (53% fat, 869 calories) increased the Cmax and AUC by 37% and 48%, respectively. Administration of Triumeq PD to healthy adults with a high-fat meal (50% fat, 917 calories) resulted in a 29% decrease in the Cmax; the AUC was unaffected.


Hepatic Impairment


Abacavir: Patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5 to 6) show a mean increase in abacavir half-life and AUC of 58% and 89%, respectively, after a single oral dose of 600 mg. The AUC of the metabolites are not changed by mild liver disease; however, the rates of formation and elimination of the metabolites are decreased. Abacavir pharmacokinetic parameters have not been assessed in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment.
Lamivudine: Lamivudine pharmacokinetics are not altered by hepatic dysfunction.
Dolutegravir: Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) does not produce a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir. Studies have not been conducted in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C).


Renal Impairment


Abacavir: The pharmacokinetics of abacavir have not been determined in patients with renal impairment; however, renal excretion of unchanged abacavir is a minor route of elimination.
Lamivudine: Total clearance of lamivudine decreases as creatinine clearance decreases; therefore, exposure (AUC), Cmax, and half-life increase with diminishing renal function. Hemodialysis increases clearance; however, the length of time of hemodialysis (4 hours) was insufficient to significantly alter mean lamivudine exposure after a single dose. The hemodialysis extraction ratio is approximately 53% to 65%. Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and automated peritoneal dialysis have negligible effects on lamivudine clearance. After correction of dose for creatinine clearance, no additional dose modification is necessary after routine hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. It is not known if continuous (24-hour) hemodialysis can remove lamivudine. The effect of renal impairment on pharmacokinetic parameters in pediatric patients is not known.
Dolutegravir: Mild to moderate renal impairment does not produce a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir. However, an evaluation of the pharmacokinetic parameters in 8 patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) found the AUC, Cmax, and C24 were decreased by 40%, 23%, and 43%, respectively, when compared to patients with normal renal function. Dolutegravir has not been adequately studied in patients requiring dialysis.


Pediatrics

Triumeq and Triumeq PD are bioequivalent for the abacavir and lamivudine components, but not for the dolutegravir component. The relative dolutegravir bioavailability of Triumeq PD is approximately 1.7-fold higher than Triumeq; therefore, the 2 dosage forms are NOT interchangeable on a mg-per-mg basis. Triumeq PD is NOT indicated for use in pediatric patients weighing more than 25 kg. The pharmacokinetics of Triumeq and Triumeq PD were evaluated in the IMPAACT 2019 trial. The overall exposures of abacavir, dolutegravir, and lamivudine at the recommended doses for Triumeq and Triumeq PD were within the observed exposure ranges at the recommended doses of the individual products in adults and pediatrics.

Gender Differences

No significant or clinically relevant gender differences in the pharmacokinetics of abacavir, dolutegravir, or lamivudine have been identified based on available data.

Ethnic Differences

No significant or clinically relevant ethnic differences in the pharmacokinetics of abacavir, dolutegravir, or lamivudine have been identified based on available data.

Other

UGT1A1 Polymorphism
A meta-analysis of healthy patients found individuals with UGT1A1 genotypes that result in poor dolutegravir metabolism (n = 7) had a 32% lower clearance and 46% higher drug exposure when compared to individuals with UGT1A1 genotypes that are associated with normal metabolism (n = 41).
 
Pregnancy
Abacavir: A population pharmacokinetic analysis of 266 samples from 36 pregnant and 114 non-pregnant patients found the pharmacokinetic parameters of abacavir to be unchanged during pregnancy. Similarly, 1 pharmacokinetic study found abacavir exposure in 25 pregnant patients receiving 300 mg twice daily during the third trimester to be comparable to exposures observed in postpartum patients and historical controls of non-pregnant patients with HIV. Abacavir crosses the placenta via passive diffusion, with drug concentrations in neonatal plasma cord samples at birth being essentially equal to those in the maternal plasma at the time of delivery.
Dolutegravir: In a pharmacokinetic study of 29 pregnant patients, dolutegravir plasma concentrations were lower during pregnancy than during the postpartum period. Specifically, systemic exposure (AUC) was reduced by 21% during pregnancy and trough concentrations were reduced by 34% in the third trimester; however, trough concentrations were still well above the 90% effective concentration of 0.064 mcg/mL. Another study involving 15 pregnant patients showed similar results with the AUC and Cmin being decreased by 14% and 26%, respectively, during pregnancy as compared to postpartum. Dolutegravir has also been shown to cross the placenta. In a study of 15 patients who received dolutegravir 50 mg once daily during the last trimester of pregnancy, the ratio of median dolutegravir concentration in fetal umbilical cord to that in maternal peripheral plasma was 1.21 (range, 0.51 to 2.11).
Lamivudine: Although population pharmacokinetic modeling suggests the oral clearance of lamivudine is increased by 22% during pregnancy, limited data from 2 studies involving 36 pregnant patients (16 at 36 weeks, 20 at 38 weeks gestation) found the pharmacokinetic parameters of lamivudine to be similar to those observed in non-pregnant and postpartum adults. No change in dose is indicated. In addition, placental transfer of lamivudine results in drug concentrations that are 2 times greater than maternal serum levels.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
NOTE: Screen for HLA-B*5701 before initiating treatment to reduce the risk of hypersensitivity reaction. HLA-B*5701-positive patients MUST not receive abacavir.
 
NOTE: Interruptions of therapy may be necessary for specific situations.
If an unanticipated short-term treatment interruption (i.e., less than 1 to 2 days) is necessary, it is generally recommended that all antiretroviral agents be discontinued simultaneously, especially if the interruption occurs in a pregnant patient or is because of serious toxicity.
If a short-term treatment interruption is anticipated, as in the case of elective surgery, consider the pharmacokinetic properties and food requirements of the specific antiretroviral medications. Stopping a treatment regimen containing medications with differing half-lives may result in functional monotherapy of the antiretroviral with the longest half-life and may increase the risk for resistant mutations.
Health care providers are advised to restart a complete and effective antiretroviral regimen as soon as possible after a short-term interruption of therapy.
Planned long-term treatment interruptions are not recommended due to the potential for HIV disease progression (i.e., declining CD4 counts, viral rebound, acute viral syndrome), development of minor HIV-associated manifestations or serious non-AIDS complications, development of drug resistance, increased risk of HIV transmission, and increased risk for opportunistic infections.
If therapy must be discontinued, counsel the patient on the potential risks and closely monitor for any clinical or laboratory abnormalities.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.


Oral Administration


Available as 2 dosage forms:
Triumeq oral tablet (600 mg abacavir, 50 mg dolutegravir, 300 mg lamivudine)
Triumeq PD tablet for oral suspension (60 mg abacavir, 5 mg dolutegravir, 30 mg lamivudine)
Triumeq and Triumeq PD cannot be interchanged on a mg-per-mg basis because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles of the dolutegravir component. If a pediatric patient switches from Triumeq PD to Triumeq, the dosage must be adjusted. Incorrect dosing of a given formulation may result in loss of therapeutic effect, development of resistance, or adverse reactions.


Oral Solid Formulations

Tablet (Triumeq)
Administer with or without food.
DO NOT chew, cut, or crush the tablets.
Administer at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing antacids or laxatives (i.e., magnesium, aluminum), sucralfate, oral calcium supplements, oral iron supplements, or buffered medications. Alternatively, may administer oral calcium and iron supplements concurrently if administered with food.


Oral Liquid Formulations

Tablet for oral suspension (Triumeq PD)
DO NOT swallow the tablets whole. DO NOT chew, cut, or crush the tablets.
Fully disperse the tablets for oral suspension in 20 mL of drinking water (if using 4, 5, or 6 tablets) or 15 mL of drinking water (if using 3 tablets) in the supplied cup.
Swirl the suspension so that no lumps remain.
Once fully dispersed, administer the oral suspension within 30 minutes of mixing.
For those unable to use the supplied cup, an appropriately-sized syringe may be used to administer the oral suspension.
Administer with or without food.
Administer at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking cation-containing antacids or laxatives (i.e., magnesium, aluminum), sucralfate, oral calcium supplements, oral iron supplements, or buffered medications. Alternatively, may administer oral calcium and iron supplements concurrently if administered with food.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

abacavir 600 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 50 mg/day PO; lamivudine 300 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

abacavir 600 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 50 mg/day PO; lamivudine 300 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

abacavir 600 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 50 mg/day PO; lamivudine 300 mg/day PO.

Children

weighing 25 kg or more: abacavir 600 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 50 mg/day PO; lamivudine 300 mg/day PO.
weighing 20 to 24 kg: abacavir 360 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 30 mg/day PO; lamivudine 180 mg/day PO.
weighing 14 to 19 kg: abacavir 300 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 25 mg/day PO; lamivudine 150 mg/day PO.
weighing 10 to 13 kg: abacavir 240 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 20 mg/day PO; lamivudine 120 mg/day PO.
weighing 6 to 9 kg: abacavir 180 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 15 mg/day PO; lamivudine 90 mg/day PO.

Infants

3 to 11 months weighing 10 to 13 kg: abacavir 240 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 20 mg/day PO; lamivudine 120 mg/day PO.
3 to 11 months weighing 6 to 9 kg: abacavir 180 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 15 mg/day PO; lamivudine 90 mg/day PO.
3 to 11 months weighing 3 to 5 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, abacavir 60 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 5 mg/day PO; lamivudine 30 mg/day PO is used off-label.
1 to 2 months weighing 6 to 9 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, abacavir 180 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 15 mg/day PO; lamivudine 90 mg/day PO is used off-label.
1 to 2 months weighing 3 to 5 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, abacavir 60 mg/day PO; dolutegravir 5 mg/day PO; lamivudine 30 mg/day PO is used off-label.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

TRIUMEQ 600mg-50mg-300mg Tablet

Triumeq 600mg-50mg-300mg Tablet

Triumeq PD 60mg-5mg-30mg Tablet for Suspension

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A): Use is not recommended because abacavir dosage adjustment may be required; use the individual components.
Moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B or C): Use is contraindicated.

Renal Impairment

CrCl 50 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
CrCl 30 to 49 mL/minute: No dosage adjustment is needed, but monitor for lamivudine-related hematologic toxicities. If new or worsening neutropenia or anemia develops, discontinue use of the fixed-dose combination product and administer the individual components to allow for a lamivudine dose adjustment.
CrCl less than 30 mL/minute and pediatric patients with a similar degree of renal impairment based on age-appropriate renal function assessment: Use is not recommended.

© 2026 Elsevier