=== Topical Wound Healing Agents (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5455)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Description:

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Brand Names
  - Collavera
  - Foraxa Rx
  - Lidotrex
  - Regenecare
  - Regenecare HA

Description
  Text
  Description: Topical wound healing agents are used for the local management of skin wounds, including pressure injuries, venous insufficiency ulcers, superficial wounds and scrapes, radiation reactions, skin tears, and first and second degree burns. These products include combinations of ingredients that promote wound healing, moisturize the skin, provide barrier protection, and/or relieve minor local pain. Ingredients may include aloe vera, collagen, hyaluronic acid, and/or lidocaine. Products may be available by prescription or over-the-counter; prescription status does not necessarily indicate that the product is FDA-approved.
 
Contraindications/Precautions: For topical use only. Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with amide local anesthetic hypersensitivity or hypersensitivity to any component of the product. Methemoglobinemia has been reported with local anesthetic use. Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia, patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PD deficiency), preexisting (congenital or idiopathic) methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise (cardiac disease or pulmonary disease), and those with concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor such patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if a local anesthetic must be used. Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed hours after exposure. Avoid ocular exposure as severe eye irritation and a loss of protective reflexes allowing for corneal irritation and potential abrasion may occur. If eye contact occurs, immediately wash the eye with water or saline, and protect the eye until sensation returns. The effect on the nursing infant has not been evaluated. Caution should be exercised when administered to a breast-feeding patient.
 
Administration:
Topical Administration
For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes, genitals, or other mucous membranes.
If eye contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water.
Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics or anesthetics.
Prior to application, clean and dry the affected area.
Apply a thin layer of medication to the affected area and cover with secondary dressing
After application, wash hands with soap and water.
 
For the management of skin wounds, including pressure injuries, venous insufficiency ulcers, superficial wounds and scrapes, radiation reactions, skin tears, and first and second degree burns.
Topical dosage
Adults: Apply to clean, dry, skin or tissue as directed by product labeling or a healthcare professional.
Children and Adolescents 2 years or older: Apply to clean, dry, skin or tissue as directed by product labeling or a healthcare professional.
Children younger than 2 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
