=== Solriamfetol (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5134)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Solriamfetol is a dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor approved to improve wakefulness in adults with excessive daytime sleepiness associated with narcolepsy or obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 150 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, headache, insomnia, teeth grinding (bruxism), tremor, agitation, anxiety, irritability, restlessness, weight loss

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. cardiovascular disease Solriamfetol increases systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, and heart rate in a dose-dependent fashion. Solriamfetol should be avoided in people...

Brand Names
  - SUNOSI

Dosage Forms
  - SUNOSI 150mg Tablet
  - SUNOSI 150mg Tablet
  - SUNOSI 75mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        75 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose to 150 mg/day after at least 3 days based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 150 mg/day.
    Heading
    For the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness associated with narcolepsy
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Initially, 37.5 mg PO once daily upon awakening. If needed, may double the dose at intervals of at least 3 days. Max: 150 mg/day PO. Doses above 150 mg per day do not increase efficacy sufficient to outweigh dose-related adverse reactions. Periodically evaluate the need for continued treatment. If blood pressure or heart rate increases cannot be managed with dose reduction or medical interventions, consider discontinuing solriamfetol. LIMITS OF USE: Solriamfetol is not indicated to treat the underlying airway obstruction. Ensure the underlying airway obstruction is treated (e.g., with continuous positive airway pressure) for at least 1 month before initiating solriamfetol. Non-pharmacological modalities to treat the underlying airway obstruction should be continued during use of solriamfetol.
    Heading
    For the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    cardiovascular disease
    General Information
    Solriamfetol increases systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, and heart rate in a dose-dependent fashion. Solriamfetol should be avoided in people with unstable cardiovascular disease, serious cardiac arrhythmias, or other serious heart problems. Exercise caution when treating patients at higher risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), particularly people with known cardiovascular disease and cerebrovascular disease, pre-existing hypertension, and geriatric adults of advanced age. Use caution with other drugs that increase blood pressure and heart rate. Epidemiological data show that chronic elevations in blood pressure increase the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), including stroke, heart attack, and cardiovascular death. The magnitude of the increase in absolute risk is dependent on the increase in blood pressure and the underlying risk of MACE in the population being treated. Many patients with narcolepsy and obstructive sleep apnea have multiple risk factors for MACE, including hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and high body mass index (BMI). Blood pressure and heart rate should be assessed before initiating treatment with solriamfetol and monitored throughout treatment. Periodically reassess the need for continued treatment. If a patient experiences increases in blood pressure or heart rate that cannot be managed with solriamfetol dose reduction or other appropriate medical intervention, consider discontinuation of solriamfetol.
    Headline
    bipolar disorder, psychotic disorder
    General Information
    Caution should be exercised when administering solriamfetol to patients with a history of a psychotic disorder or bipolar disorder. Solriamfetol has not been evaluated in these patients. However, adverse psychiatric effects (e.g., agitation, anxiety, insomnia, irritability) have occurred during administration of solriamfetol. Patients receiving solriamfetol should be observed for the emergence or worsening of psychiatric symptoms. If these symptoms develop, consider a dose reduction or discontinuation of the drug. Patients with moderate to severe renal dysfunction may have a higher risk of developing psychiatric symptoms because of the prolonged half-life of solriamfetol in these populations.
    Headline
    substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    As a CNS stimulant, solriamfetol has the potential for abuse. Drug abuse, misuse, diversion, psychological dependence, physiological dependence, and tolerance have been reported with other psychostimulants. Patients should be carefully evaluated for a history of a substance abuse disorder prior to use, especially those patients with a history of alcohol or stimulant misuse. Such patients should be observed for signs of misuse or abuse if treatment with solriamfetol is required. In a long-term safety and treatment maintenance study, there was no evidence that abrupt discontinuation of solriamfetol resulted in symptoms consistent with physical dependence or withdrawal.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Individuals with moderate to severe renal impairment may be at a higher risk of increased blood pressure, heart rate, and psychiatric symptoms due to the prolonged half-life of solriamfetol in these populations. Solriamfetol dosage adjustments are required in people with moderate to severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2). Use of solriamfetol in people with renal failure or end-stage renal disease (ESRD) (i.e., eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2) is not recommended.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Geriatric adults of advanced age may be at increased risk of a major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE) with the use of solriamfetol. During clinical trial evaluation, no clinically significant differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between geriatric and younger adults. However, consideration should be given to the use of lower doses and close monitoring in this population. In addition, because older adults are more likely to have decreased renal function, dosing may need to be adjusted based on eGFR in this population.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of solriamfetol during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. In animal reproductive studies, fetal harm (e.g. early resorption, post-implantation loss, decreased fetal weight) and maternal toxicity (e.g. hyperactivity, significant decreases in body weight and food consumption) were observed in rats and rabbits given doses 4 to 5 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) based on body surface area. Solriamfetol was teratogenic (e.g. skeletal malformations, situs inversus) at doses 5 to 19 times the MRHD. Mating and fertility of offspring were decreased in rats at doses 22 times the MRHD. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in people exposed to solriamfetol during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to enroll patients or assist patients to register online at www.SunosiPregnancyRegistry.com or by calling 1-877-283-6220.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use solriamfetol with caution during breast-feeding. Solriamfetol is present in human milk. A study of 6 healthy lactating people who were between 10 days and 52 weeks postpartum and given a single dose of 150 mg of solriamfetol calculated a daily infant dose of 0.112 mg/kg (based on nominal infant weight of 6 kg) and a relative infant dose (RID) of approximately 5.5% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose. Of the total amount of solriamfetol excreted in human milk over 72 hours, approximately 78% and 98% was excreted in 8 and 24 hours, respectively, with an apparent mean elimination half-life in human milk of about 5 hours. Data are insufficient to determine the effects of solriamfetol on the breast-fed child or its effect on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for solriamfetol treatment and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or the patient's underlying condition. If solriamfetol is used during breast-feeding, monitor the breast-fed child for agitation, insomnia, and reduced weight gain.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of solriamfetol during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. In animal reproductive studies, fetal harm (e.g. early resorption, post-implantation loss, decreased fetal weight) and maternal toxicity (e.g. hyperactivity, significant decreases in body weight and food consumption) were observed in rats and rabbits given doses 4 to 5 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) based on body surface area. Solriamfetol was teratogenic (e.g. skeletal malformations, situs inversus) at doses 5 to 19 times the MRHD. Mating and fertility of offspring were decreased in rats at doses 22 times the MRHD. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in people exposed to solriamfetol during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to enroll patients or assist patients to register online at www.SunosiPregnancyRegistry.com or by calling 1-877-283-6220.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use solriamfetol with caution during breast-feeding. Solriamfetol is present in human milk. A study of 6 healthy lactating people who were between 10 days and 52 weeks postpartum and given a single dose of 150 mg of solriamfetol calculated a daily infant dose of 0.112 mg/kg (based on nominal infant weight of 6 kg) and a relative infant dose (RID) of approximately 5.5% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose. Of the total amount of solriamfetol excreted in human milk over 72 hours, approximately 78% and 98% was excreted in 8 and 24 hours, respectively, with an apparent mean elimination half-life in human milk of about 5 hours. Data are insufficient to determine the effects of solriamfetol on the breast-fed child or its effect on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for solriamfetol treatment and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or the patient's underlying condition. If solriamfetol is used during breast-feeding, monitor the breast-fed child for agitation, insomnia, and reduced weight gain.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as amantadine. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and amphetamines, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and amphetamines, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Amphetamines: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and amphetamines, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Angiotensin II: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as apomorphine. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and armodafinil, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and amphetamines, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Bevacizumab: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and bevacizumab. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as bromocriptine. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as bupropion. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as bupropion. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated. (Moderate) Patients who regularly consume caffeine-containing foods or beverages may need to limit caffeine intake during solriamfetol treatment. Blood pressure and heart rate should be closely monitored in patients treated with solriamfetol who regularly consume caffeine. Solriamfetol can increase blood pressure and heart rate; caffeine is a stimulant that may cause additive effects on blood pressure or heart rate when combined with solriamfetol.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as levodopa.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as entacapone. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated. (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as levodopa.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as cocaine. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated. In addition, the noradrenergic effects of cocaine may increase the likelihood of an elevated blood pressure and heart rate, both of which have been associated with solriamfetol administration.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and antidepressants that are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and methylphenidate derivatives, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and amphetamines, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as bupropion. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and diethylpropion, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Droxidopa: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and antidepressants that are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as entacapone. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and esketamine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as levodopa.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of noradrenergic drugs, such as solriamfetol, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of solriamfetol within 14 days of MAOI therapy is contraindicated due to the increased risk for hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as levodopa.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and antidepressants that are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and amphetamines, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and amphetamines, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and methylphenidate derivatives, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and methylphenidate derivatives, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and antidepressants that are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and modafinil, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of noradrenergic drugs, such as solriamfetol, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of solriamfetol within 14 days of MAOI therapy is contraindicated due to the increased risk for hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of noradrenergic drugs, such as solriamfetol, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of solriamfetol within 14 days of MAOI therapy is contraindicated due to the increased risk for hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and phentermine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and phentermine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as pramipexole. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Rasagiline: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of solriamfetol, a noradrenergic drugs, and rasagiline, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, or use of solriamfetol within 14 days of rasagiline is contraindicated due to the increased risk for hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure. In addition, solriamfetol is a central dopaminergic drug and concurrent use with other dopaminergic drugs, such as rasagiline, has not been studied.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as ropinirole. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Rotigotine: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as rotigotine. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of solriamfetol, a noradrenergic drugs, and safinamide, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, or use of solriamfetol within 14 days of safinamide is contraindicated due to the increased risk for hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure. In addition, solriamfetol is a central dopaminergic drug and concurrent use with other dopaminergic drugs, such as safinamide, has not been studied.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of noradrenergic drugs, such as solriamfetol, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as selegiline, or use of solriamfetol within 14 days of MAOI therapy is contraindicated due to the increased risk for hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and methylphenidate derivatives, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and antidepressants that are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as tolcapone. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of noradrenergic drugs, such as solriamfetol, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of solriamfetol within 14 days of MAOI therapy is contraindicated due to the increased risk for hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Vasopressors: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and antidepressants that are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dizziness, headache, insomnia, teeth grinding (bruxism), tremor
    General Information
    During clinical trials in adults with narcolepsy or obstructive sleep apnea, the following centrally-mediated (CNS) effects occurred in at least 2% of solriamfetol-treated patients and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients: insomnia (5%), dizziness (2%), and headache (7% to 16%). CNS effects observed during other premarketing evaluations of solriamfetol included teeth grinding (bruxism) and tremor. Headache was considered a dose-dependent adverse reaction.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      teeth grinding (bruxism)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, irritability, restlessness
    General Information
    During clinical trials in adults with narcolepsy or obstructive sleep apnea, the following adverse psychiatric effects occurred in at least 2% of solriamfetol-treated patients and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients: anxiety (2% to 7%), irritability (3%), and feeling jittery (3%). Psychiatric effects observed during other premarketing evaluations of solriamfetol included agitation, restlessness, and disturbances in attention. Anxiety was considered a dose-dependent adverse reaction. Psychiatric effects that resulted in treatment discontinuation at a higher rate in patients who received solriamfetol than placebo included anxiety (less than 1%) and restlessness (less than 1%). Because psychiatric effects have been reported during solriamfetol administration and the drug has not been studied in patients with a history of psychosis (e.g., schizophrenia) or bipolar disorder (e.g., mania), caution is recommended in these populations. Patients receiving solriamfetol should be observed for the emergence or worsening of psychiatric symptoms. If psychiatric symptoms develop during treatment with solriamfetol, consider a dose reduction or discontinuation of the drug.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, weight loss, xerostomia
    General Information
    During clinical trials in adults with narcolepsy or obstructive sleep apnea, the following adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred in at least 2% of solriamfetol-treated patients and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients: decreased appetite (6% to 9%), nausea (5% to 8%), diarrhea (4% to 5%), abdominal pain (3%), xerostomia (2% to 4%), and constipation (3%). Adverse GI effects observed during other premarketing evaluations of solriamfetol included weight loss and vomiting. Nausea, decreased appetite, diarrhea, and xerostomia were considered dose-dependent adverse reactions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypertension, palpitations
    General Information
    During clinical trials in adults with narcolepsy or obstructive sleep apnea, palpitations occurred in 2% to 3% of solriamfetol-treated patients and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients. Palpitations resulted in treatment discontinuation at a higher rate in patients who received solriamfetol (less than 1%) than placebo. Solriamfetol can cause a dose-related increase in systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, and heart rate in patients with or without pre-existing hypertension. During use of FDA approved doses, the maximal mean changes in blood pressure and heart rate from baseline through week 12 of clinical trials were as follows: systolic blood pressure in mmHg (37.5 mg = +4.6; 75 mg = +3.8; 150 mg = +4.9), diastolic blood pressure in mmHg (37.5 mg = +1.9; 75 mg = +3.2; 150 mg = +4.2), and heart rate in beats/minute (37.5 mg = +1.9; 75 mg = +3.7; 150 mg = +4.9). Blood pressure should be assessed before initiating treatment with solriamfetol and monitored regularly thereafter during treatment. If a patient experiences increases in blood pressure or heart rate that cannot be managed with a dose reduction or other medical intervention, consider discontinuation of solriamfetol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea
    General Information
    During premarketing evaluations of solriamfetol, adverse respiratory effects including cough and dyspnea were reported; however, the frequencies are unknown and causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hyperhidrosis
    General Information
    During clinical trials of solriamfetol in adults with narcolepsy or obstructive sleep apnea, hyperhidrosis occurred in 2% of solriamfetol-treated patients and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients. Hyperhidrosis was also observed in other premarketing evaluations of solriamfetol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified)
    General Information
    During clinical trials in adults with narcolepsy or obstructive sleep apnea, chest discomfort occurred in 2% of solriamfetol-treated patients and more frequently than in placebo-treated patients. Other general disorders observed during premarketing evaluation of solriamfetol included thirst and chest pain (unspecified).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions, such as urticaria and rash (erythematous rash and unspecified), have occurred following the use of solriamfetol. As these reports are voluntary, the incidence of these events is currently unknown.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Solriamfetol is a dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor approved to improve wakefulness in adults with excessive daytime sleepiness associated with narcolepsy or obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). In patients with OSA, the underlying airway obstruction should be treated (e.g., with CPAP) for at least 1 month prior to initiating solriamfetol. The Veteran's Affairs/Department of Defense (VA/DoD) guidelines for treatment of obstructive sleep apnea suggest solriamfetol may be considered for treating residual excessive daytime sleepiness in adults with OSA who are optimally treated with first-line therapy options, but additional data is warranted. Increases in blood pressure, heart rate, and the development or worsening of psychiatric symptoms such as anxiety, insomnia, and irritability are possible during solriamfetol use. Blood pressure and heart rate should be assessed before initiating treatment with solriamfetol and throughout treatment with the drug. The FDA approved solriamfetol in March 2019.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The mechanism by which solriamfetol improves wakefulness in patients with excessive daytime sleepiness associated with narcolepsy or obstructive sleep apnea is believed to be mediated through its activity as a dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. Solriamfetol binds to the dopamine and norepinephrine transporters with low affinity and inhibits the reuptake of dopamine and norepinephrine with low potency. There is no appreciable binding affinity for the serotonin transporter and the drug does not inhibit serotonin reuptake. Solriamfetol has no appreciable binding affinity to dopamine, serotonin, norepinephrine, GABA, adenosine, histamine, orexin, benzodiazepine, muscarinic acetylcholine, or nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The oral bioavailability of solriamfetol is approximately 95%. Peak plasma concentrations occur at a median of 2 hours (range: 1.25 to 3 hours) post-dose under fasting conditions. Solriamfetol exhibits linear kinetics within the therapeutic dose range. Taking solriamfetol with a high-fat meal did not have a significant effect on overall medication concentration but did delay the time to peak plasma concentration by approximately 1 hour.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The half-life of solriamfetol in patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment is increased 1.2-, 1.9-, and 3.9-fold, respectively, compared to subjects with normal renal function. Exposure (AUC) and half-life of solriamfetol were significantly increased in patients with end-stage renal disease. An average of 21% of solriamfetol was removed by hemodialysis. Generally, the median time to maximum concentrations was not affected by renal impairment. Because solriamfetol is primarily eliminated renally as the parent drug, dosage adjustments are required in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Clinical studies of solriamfetol have not been conducted in pediatric patients. Pharmacokinetic data are not available in this population.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of solriamfetol were observed based upon age. Additionally, no clinically significant differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly and younger patients. However, because solriamfetol is eliminated primarily through the kidneys as the parent compound, consider lower doses and close monitoring in populations at risk for a decline in renal function, such as the elderly.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of solriamfetol were observed based upon gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of solriamfetol were observed based upon ethnicity.
  Text
  Solriamfetol is administered orally. Plasma protein binding is insignificant (less than 20%). Solriamfetol exhibits first-order elimination and is minimally metabolized. The mean elimination half-life is about 7.1 hours. Approximately 95% of a dose is excreted as unchanged solriamfetol, and 1% or less of a dose is excreted in the urine as N-acetyl solriamfetol, a minor inactive metabolite. Active tubular secretion is likely involved in the renal elimination of the parent drug. Steady-state is reached in 3 days, and once daily administration is expected to result in minimal accumulation.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None
Based on in vitro data, clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug interactions involving CYP isoenzymes or drug transporters are not expected. Solriamfetol is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, or CYP3A4. It does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP3A4, or UGT1A1 at clinically relevant concentrations. Solriamfetol is a low-affinity substrate of OCT2, MATE1, OCTN1, and OCTN2 and a weak inhibitor of OCT2 and MATE1. It is not an inhibitor of OCT1, MATE2-K, OCTN1, or OCTN2. Solriamfetol does not appear to be a substrate or inhibitor of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, or OAT3.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer by mouth upon awakening. May be administered with or without food.
Avoid administration within 9 hours of planned bedtime due to the potential for sleep interference if taken too late in the day.
The 75 mg tablets are scored and can be split in half to give a 37.5 mg dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    150 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    150 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Initiate at 37.5 mg PO once daily. May increase to a maximum of 75 mg PO once daily after at least 7 days.
eGFR 15 to 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2: 37.5 mg PO once daily is the recommended initial and maximum daily dose.
eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Avoid use.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis:
In a renal impairment study, an average of 21% of solriamfetol was removed by hemodialysis. Solriamfetol is not recommended in patients with end-stage renal disease.
