=== Doxylamine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2421)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Doxylamine is an oral first-generation, sedating antihistamine (H1-blocker) of the ethanolamine class.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 25 mg/day PO for insomnia.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agitation, appetite stimulation, asthenia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, impaired cognition, insomnia, myasthenia, palpitations, restlessness, seizures, weakness, ataxia, delirium, diplopia, dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, hallucinations, lethargy, tremor, blurred vision, irritability, mydriasis, photosensitivity, urinary retention, xerophthalmia, bradycardia

In an Overdose: CNS stimulatory symptoms may include agitation, appetite stimulation, restlessness, insomnia, palpitations, muscle spasms, and in severe cases, seizures.Antihistamine overdose has been linked to coma; stimulatory CNS effects such as... Fatalities have been reported with overdose.Doxylamine possesses a significant degree of anticholinergic effects, which can result in thickening of bronchial secretions, xerostomia, urinary retention, insomnia...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Doxylamine causes drowsiness. Patients receiving doxylamine should be advised to avoid driving or operating machinery until the effects of the drug are known.

Brand Names
  - Aldex AN
  - Doxytex
  - Unisom

Dosage Forms
  - Aldex AN 5mg Chewable Tablet
  - Bonjesta 20mg-20mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - CVS Nighttime Sleep Aid 25mg Tablet
  - CVS Nighttime Sleep-Aid 25mg Tablet
  - Diclegis 10mg-10mg Delayed-Release Tablet
  - Doxylamine Succinate 10mg, Vitamin B6 (Pyridoxine hydrochloride) 10mg Oral tablet, gastro-resistant
  - Doxylamine Succinate Bulk powder
  - Doxytex 2.5mg/2.5ml Liquid
  - Equaline Sleep Aid 25mg Tablet
  - Equate Sleep Aid 25mg Tablet
  - Foster & Thrive Sleep Aid 25mg Tablet
  - GNP Nighttime Sleep Aid 25mg Tablet
  - GoodSense Nighttime Sleep Aid 25mg Tablet
  - GoodSense Nighttime Sleep Aid Ultra 25mg Tablet (Berry)
  - GoodSense Sleep Aid 25mg Tablet
  - Kirkland Sleep Aid 25mg Tablet
  - Leader Sleep-Aid 25mg Tablet
  - Poly Hist Forte 10.5mg-10mg Tablet
  - Poly Hist Forte 7.5mg-10mg Tablet
  - RITE AID Night Sleep Aid 25mg Tablet
  - Top Care Sleep Aid 25mg Tablet
  - Unisom SleepTabs 25mg Tablet
  - Wal-Som 25mg Tablet
  - Walgreens Nighttime Sleep Aid 25mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        25 mg PO given 30 minutes before bedtime as needed. If insomnia persists continuously for more than 2 weeks, the patient should be evaluated. Per guidelines, not a medication of choice for insomnia.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        25 mg PO given once daily 30 minutes before bedtime as needed. If insomnia persists continuously for more than 2 weeks, the patient should be evaluated.
    Heading
    For the treatment of occasional insomnia
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        12.5 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily in combination with pyridoxine. Adjust frequency based on symptom severity.
        Heading
        Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        12.5 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily in combination with pyridoxine. Adjust frequency based on symptom severity.
    Heading
    For the treatment of pregnancy-induced nausea/vomiting†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Doxylamine causes drowsiness. Patients receiving doxylamine should be advised to avoid driving or operating machinery until the effects of the drug are known. Alcohol consumption may intensify the sedative effects of the drug and should be avoided. When used as a treatment for insomnia, doxylamine should be administered only prior to bedtime.
 
Use antihistamines with caution in patients with asthma. The anticholinergic activity of H1-antagonists may result in thickened bronchial secretions in the respiratory tract thereby aggravating an acute asthmatic attack or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Although antihistamines should be avoided during an acute asthmatic attack, these anticholinergic effects do not preclude the use of antihistamines in all asthmatics or COPD patients, particularly if the above respiratory symptom is not a primary component of the illness. Because doxylamine exhibits a significant amount of anticholinergic activity, the use of an H1-antagonist with less anticholinergic activity is preferable when therapy is indicated.
 
The anticholinergic effects of doxylamine may result in a worsening of symptoms in patients with bladder obstruction, GI obstruction or ileus, stenosing peptic ulcer disease, pyloric stenosis, benign prostatic hypertrophy, or urinary retention. These precautions are most significant when using H1-antagonists such as doxylamine or those from the phenothiazine group. The elderly are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects of drugs since there is a decline in endogenous cholinergic activity that occurs with age. The quinidine-like local anesthetic and anticholinergic effects of H1-antagonists are responsible for the adverse cardiac effects which have been observed including tachycardia, ECG changes, hypotension, and arrhythmias. Although these cardiovascular effects are uncommon, doxylamine should be used conservatively in those with cardiac disease since this patient population is susceptible to the anticholinergic effects of the drug.
 
Doxylamine should be avoided, if possible, in patients with closed-angle glaucoma and an H1-antagonist with less anticholinergic effects should be instituted. An increase in intraocular pressure may occur from the anticholinergic actions of the drug, precipitating an acute attack of glaucoma. Elderly patients are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects of doxylamine, including possible precipitation of undiagnosed glaucoma. Other ocular effects resulting from the anticholinergic effects of doxylamine include dry eyes or blurred vision, which may be of significance in the elderly and wearers of contact lenses.
 
The primary metabolic route of doxylamine appears to be hepatic. The metabolism of the drug may be reduced in the presence of hepatic impairment. Those with significant hepatic disease receiving H1-antagonists should be monitored for liver function and side effects. Dosage reduction may be required in these patients.
 
Do not use doxylamine as a sleep aid in children under 12 years of age. Doxylamine is marketed for allergic rhinitis in children (see Indications/Dosage). Use of sedating antihistamines in children has been associated with paradoxical CNS stimulation and may increase the risk of seizures. In addition, there have been a number of cases of respiratory depression, sleep apnea, and SIDS in infants and children receiving phenothiazine antihistamines. The mechanism of this reaction is not yet known; therefore, H1-antagonists should be used with extreme caution in neonates and infants with a family history of SIDS or sleep apnea.
 
Doxylamine is classified as pregnancy category B. Doxylamine, in combination with pyridoxine and dicyclomine, became available in 1956 for the treatment of nausea and vomiting during pregnancy; dicyclomine was removed from the product in 1976 due to lack of efficacy as an antiemetic. Doxylamine in combination with pyridoxine continued to be available under the brand name Bendectin® until 1983 when litigation over possible teratogenetic effects resulted in its voluntary withdrawal by the manufacturer. There have been numerous reports of fetal abnormalities including cardiac anomalies, cleft palate, congenital limb defects, and pyloric stenosis; however, many studies have failed to show an association between the drug and teratogenetic effects. The data regarding doxylamine do not support evidence of teratogenesis, either alone or in combination with pyridoxine. Although Bendectin is no longer available in the United States, the product is still available in Canada as Diclectin for use an an antiemetic during pregnancy. H1-antagonists are not recommended for use in the last 2 weeks of pregnancy due to a possible association between these drugs and retrolental fibroplasia in premature neonates. Non-pharmacologic methods (e.g., fluids, rest) are recommended to be tried first during pregnancy for symptomatic relief of colds or allergies; pharmacologic treatment of insomnia during pregnancy is generally not recommended.
 
According to the manufacturer, doxylamine is not recommended for use during breast-feeding. Data regarding the transfer of doxylamine into human milk are not available; however, the molecular weight of doxylamine suggests that passage into human breast milk is possible. In addition, maternal exposure to H1-antagonists has been reported to induce irritability or sedation in 9.4% of breast-fed infants. Sedating antihistamines have been associated with CNS adverse events, including respiratory depression, apnea, and seizures, when administered directly to infants and children. Non-drug methods or, if medication is needed, nonsedating antihistamines are preferred alternatives. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally ingested drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Doxylamine is an ethanolamine class first-generation antihistamine. Allergies to one antihistamine can sometimes lead to cross-reactivity with other chemically-related antihistamines.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    When using doxylamine nonprescription (OTC) for temporary insomnia, if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than 2 weeks, use of the product should be discontinued and a health care provider should be consulted.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Doxylamine causes drowsiness. Individuals taking doxylamine should be advised to avoid activities requiring coordination and concentration or driving or operating machinery until the effects of the medication are known. The use of alcohol and other sedatives or CNS depressants concurrently may increase drowsiness. When used as a treatment for insomnia, doxylamine should only be administered prior to bedtime and when the patient has enough time for a full night of sleep.
    Headline
    chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
    General Information
    The anticholinergic activity of sedating antihistamines such as doxylamine should be used with caution in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), such as chronic bronchitis or emphysema.
    Headline
    prostatic hypertrophy
    General Information
    Sedating antihistamines such as doxylamine have anticholinergic activity and should be used with caution in patients with conditions that may be aggravated by this activity, such as trouble urinating due to prostatic hypertrophy.
    Headline
    glaucoma
    General Information
    Doxylamine should be used with caution in people with glaucoma, as an increase in intraocular pressure may occur from the anticholinergic actions of the medication. Older adults are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects, including possible precipitation of undiagnosed glaucoma.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The Beers Criteria identifies first-generation antihistamines as potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) for geriatric adults, recommending their avoidance due to their high anticholinergic properties, decreased clearance in older age, the development of tolerance when used as sleep aids, and an increased risk of anticholinergic effects and toxicity compared to younger individuals. These medications should particularly be avoided in patients with dementia or cognitive impairment (due to adverse CNS effects), those at high risk for delirium (which can worsen or trigger new-onset delirium), and men with lower urinary tract symptoms or benign prostatic hyperplasia (due to risks of urinary retention or hesitancy).
    Headline
    children, infants, neonates
    General Information
    Due to the potential for adverse effects, the FDA nonprescription monograph for nonprescription sleep medicines and the labeling recommends against the use of antihistamines such as doxylamine for sedation in pediatric patients less than 12 years of age. One pediatric study found that antihistamines were not more effective than placebo in decreasing nighttime awakening in young children, and there is the risk for adverse effects such as next-day sedation, anticholinergic effects, and risk of paradoxical agitation. Doxylamine is rarely used for cold and allergy symptoms, but as a first-generation antihistamine, has been used in the past for such symptoms. Due to the risk for serious adverse reactions, the FDA also recommends against administration of over the counter (OTC) cough and cold products to neonates, infants and children younger than 2 years of age. When administering OTC medications to older pediatric patients, they advise caregivers to read product labels carefully, use caution when administering multiple products to avoid duplication of ingredients, and use only measuring devices specifically designed for use with medications. Care teams should thoroughly assess the use of similar products, both prescription and nonprescription, to avoid duplication of therapy and the potential for inadvertent overdose.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    No increased risk for congenital malformations has been reported with use of doxylamine, when used in combination with pyridoxine, for the treatment of nausea and vomiting due to pregnancy. Doxylamine use has been evaluated through epidemiological studies (cohort, case control and meta-analyses) designed to detect possible teratogenicity. A meta-analysis of 16 cohorts and 11 case-control studies published between 1963 and 1991 reported no increased risk for malformations from first trimester exposures to doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride, with or without dicyclomine hydrochloride. A second meta-analysis of 12 cohorts and 5 case-control studies published between 1963 and 1985 reported no statistically significant relationships between fetal abnormalities and the first trimester use of the combination doxylamine and pyridoxine with or without dicyclomine.  Doxylamine treatment is generally avoided during pregnancy with respect to the treatment of allergic rhinitis or insomnia; non-pharmacologic methods are usually employed when possible. Pregnant patients should see their health care professional for diagnosis and treatment recommendations. Consider alternatives. Loratadine and cetirizine are acceptable antihistamine alternatives for cold or allergy symptoms based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Doxylamine should be used with caution in breast-feeding; the molecular weight of the drug suggests some transfer into breast milk would be expected. Larger doses or prolonged use may cause adverse effects in the breastfed infant or decrease the milk supply, especially if lactation is not well established. Side effects of sedating first-generation antihistamines in breastfed infants such as irritability, disturbed sleeping patterns, drowsiness, hyperexcitability, and excessive crying have been reported in a number of cases.  Antihistamines can lower basal prolactin secretion and may interfere with the establishment of lactation. Consider treatment alternatives when possible. For example, guidelines for allergic rhinitis recommend loratadine or cetirizine at the lowest dose as preferred antihistamines in breast-feeding individuals because they are safer with only low levels found in breast milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    No increased risk for congenital malformations has been reported with use of doxylamine, when used in combination with pyridoxine, for the treatment of nausea and vomiting due to pregnancy. Doxylamine use has been evaluated through epidemiological studies (cohort, case control and meta-analyses) designed to detect possible teratogenicity. A meta-analysis of 16 cohorts and 11 case-control studies published between 1963 and 1991 reported no increased risk for malformations from first trimester exposures to doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride, with or without dicyclomine hydrochloride. A second meta-analysis of 12 cohorts and 5 case-control studies published between 1963 and 1985 reported no statistically significant relationships between fetal abnormalities and the first trimester use of the combination doxylamine and pyridoxine with or without dicyclomine.  Doxylamine treatment is generally avoided during pregnancy with respect to the treatment of allergic rhinitis or insomnia; non-pharmacologic methods are usually employed when possible. Pregnant patients should see their health care professional for diagnosis and treatment recommendations. Consider alternatives. Loratadine and cetirizine are acceptable antihistamine alternatives for cold or allergy symptoms based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Doxylamine should be used with caution in breast-feeding; the molecular weight of the drug suggests some transfer into breast milk would be expected. Larger doses or prolonged use may cause adverse effects in the breastfed infant or decrease the milk supply, especially if lactation is not well established. Side effects of sedating first-generation antihistamines in breastfed infants such as irritability, disturbed sleeping patterns, drowsiness, hyperexcitability, and excessive crying have been reported in a number of cases.  Antihistamines can lower basal prolactin secretion and may interfere with the establishment of lactation. Consider treatment alternatives when possible. For example, guidelines for allergic rhinitis recommend loratadine or cetirizine at the lowest dose as preferred antihistamines in breast-feeding individuals because they are safer with only low levels found in breast milk.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
ALFentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when amoxapine is used concomitantly with drugs are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature Additive sedation may also occur.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and doxylamine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of doxylamine and aripiprazole due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Azelastine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression.
Baclofen: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including skeletal muscle relaxants, such as baclofen.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and belladonna use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and benztropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Reserve concomitant prescribing of buprenorphine and doxylamine for use in patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Gradually tapering a patient off other CNS depressants or decreasing to the lowest effective dose is preferred in most cases of patients being treated for opioid use disorder. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Also monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant use. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Reserve concomitant prescribing of buprenorphine and doxylamine for use in patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Gradually tapering a patient off other CNS depressants or decreasing to the lowest effective dose is preferred in most cases of patients being treated for opioid use disorder. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Also monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant use. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with sedating H1-blockers can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on CNS and/or respiratory depression. Use together with caution. If a CNS depressant needs to be used with butorphanol, use the smallest effective dose and the longest dosing frequency of butorphanol.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and sedating H1-blockers. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of cariprazine, caution should be used when cariprazine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including benzodiazepines and other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like doxylamine.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when chlorpromazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as doxylamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription motion sickness, allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, may cause drowsiness or other CNS effects. Additive drowsiness may occur when clobazam is combined with CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. In addition, caution is recommended when administering clobazam with medications extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 such as diphenhydramine because clobazam has been shown to inhibit CYP2D6 in vivo and may increase concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine exhibits clinically significant anticholinergic effects and sedation that may be additive with other medications that may cause anticholinergic effects and sedation, including antihistamines such as doxylamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines and to avoid tasks requiring mental alertness until they are aware of the effects of the combination.
Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cyclobenzaprine and doxylamine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect (e.g., drowsiness) may occur when dantrolene is combined with other CNS depressants.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Desflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Desloratadine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as doxylamine, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Consider a dosage reduction for dexmedetomidine or the sedating antihistamine during concomitant use due to the risk of additive CNS effects.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and dicyclomine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of sedating H1-blockers may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including disopyramide. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and donepezil should be avoided if possible. Donepezil inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of donepezil.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and donepezil should be avoided if possible. Donepezil inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of donepezil.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with antihistamines is necessary. Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with antihistamines may result in additive drowsiness, hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers have additive or potentiating sedative and other CNS effects with droperidol. Following administration of droperidol, lower doses of the other CNS depressant may need to be used.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and doxylamine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone and concomitantly administered CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and doxylamine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and flavoxate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, may increase the risk of CNS depression (e.g., dizziness, somnolence) compared to the use of flibanserin alone. Patients should avoid activities requiring full alertness (e.g., operating machinery or driving) until at least 6 hours after each dose and until they know how flibanserin affects them.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Additive sedative effects may be seen when fluphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as doxylamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of doxylamine and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Galantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants such as the sedating H1-blockers. Additive anticholinergic effects may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or CNS effects may also occur.
Heparin: (Minor) Antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant actions of heparin, according to the product labels. However, this interaction is not likely of clinical significance since heparin therapy is adjusted to the partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and other clinical parameters of the patient.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and homatropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when iloperidone is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Isoflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Ketamine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with lemborexant.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Levorphanol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and doxylamine. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or performing any other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the combination are known.
Loratadine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are associated with anticholinergic effects and sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having anticholinergic activity and CNS depressant properties such as traditional antipsychotic agents, including loxapine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and doxylamine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of lurasidone, caution should be used when lurasidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications. Sedating H1-blockers are associated with sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having CNS depressant properties such as antipsychotics. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Meclizine: (Major) Meclizine is an H1-blocker which exhibits significant anticholinergic effects. The anticholinergic effects of meclizine may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with antimuscarinic activity, including other sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive sedation may also occur.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of melatonin and sedating H1-blockers due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Meperidine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Methadone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with sedating H1-blockers can result in additive sedative effects.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of doxylamine and mirtazapine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Molindone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Morphine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the effects of nalbuphine on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including nefazodone.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs.
Oliceridine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Opiate Agonists: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and oxybutynin use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Coadministration of drugs with CNS depressant effects, including paliperidone and doxylamine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Monitor for signs and symptoms of CNS depression and advise patients to avoid driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of papaverine with potent CNS depressants such as doxylamine could lead to enhanced sedation.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Use pentazocine with caution in any patient receiving medication with CNS depressant and/or anticholinergic activity. Coadministration of pentazocine with sedating H1-blockers may result in additive respiratory and CNS depression and anticholinergic effects, such as urinary retention and constipation.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as doxylamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, cough, and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as doxylamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, cough, and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with doxylamine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Due to the effects of pimozide on cognition, it should be used cautiously with other CNS depressants including sedating antihistamines. Sedating H1-blockers are associated with anticholinergic effects and sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with pimozide. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with doxylamine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like doxylamine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pramipexole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of pramipexole.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of doxylamine and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Primidone: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Procarbazine: (Moderate) Use procarbazine and sedating H1-blockers together with caution; additive central nervous system depression may occur.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when prochlorperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as doxylamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Propofol: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and quetiapine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as ramelteon.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and sedating H1-blockers (sedating antihistamines) may result in additive sedation, anticholinergic effects, or hypotensive reactions. Rasagiline may be less likely to produce these interactions than other MAOIs, due to MAO-B selectivity. However, consider alternatives therapy to antihistamines where possible. If alternative combinations are not available, these medications may be used together with close monitoring. Many non-prescription products for coughs, colds, allergy, hay fever or insomnia contain sedating antihistamines. Patients receiving rasagiline should be counseled that it is essential to consult their healthcare provider or pharmacist prior to the use of any non-prescription products. Patients should also be advised against driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Remifentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution should be used when risperidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and rivastigmine should be avoided if possible. Rivastigmine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of rivastigmine.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Rotigotine: (Major) Concomitant use of rotigotine with other CNS depressants, such as doxylamine, can potentiate the sedation effects of rotigotine.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of doxylamine and selegiline due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Sevoflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by concurrent medications, including H1-blockers. False study results are possible; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like solifenacin are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as doxylamine.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and doxylamine. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Tapentadol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as tasimelteon.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as doxylamine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with opiate agonists; antihistamines; antipsychotics; anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics; and other central nervous system depressants due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when thioridazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as doxylamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when antipsychotics, such as thiothixene, are used concomitantly with other drugs such as sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of doxylamine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with doxylamine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and doxylamine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of doxylamine and trazodone due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when trifluoperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as doxylamine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and trihexyphenidyl use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of doxylamine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given with sedating H1-blockers.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Also, Cyproheptadine is an antagonist of serotonin in the CNS, a property which may oppose some of the pharmacologic effects of vilazodone. Cyproheptadine has been used for the management of orgasm dysfunction caused by the serotonergic antidepressants and for the adjunctive treatment of serotonin syndrome; however, a reversal of antidepressant effects may occur when cyproheptadine is given in a routine manner along with the antidepressant. Clinically, cyproheptadine reportedly has interfered with the antidepressant and anti-bulimia actions of fluoxetine, but more data are needed to confirm a direct drug-drug interaction.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zaleplon due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are associated with sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having CNS depressant properties such as antipsychotics. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur with ziprasidone.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zolpidem due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary. Limit the dose of Intermezzo sublingual tablets to 1.75 mg/day.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  CNS depression manifested as drowsiness and/or dizziness can occur during therapy with doxylamine. Other less frequently occurring CNS effects of sedating antihistamines include asthenia/weakness, confusion, dysarthria (slurred speech), myasthenia, fatigue, or headache. There is considerable individual patient response to sedative effects, so patients should be warned of the possible impairment of mental acuity. These side effects may disappear after a few days of medication. Geriatric patients may be more predisposed to adverse CNS depressant effects such as impaired cognition, particularly with higher dosages. Ethanol intake will increase the risk of sedation. If sedation persists or is severe, a dosage reduction or switching to a non-sedating H1-antagonist may be advisable. Elderly persons and pediatric patients taking antihistamines have the greatest risk of CNS related side effects. Doxylamine, like many antihistamines, can cause a paradoxical CNS stimulation, although, this is more likely to occur in children. CNS stimulatory symptoms may include agitation, appetite stimulation, restlessness, insomnia, palpitations, muscle spasms, and in severe cases, seizures.Antihistamine overdose has been linked to coma; stimulatory CNS effects such as dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, tardive dyskinesia, tremor and seizures; and neuropsychiatric effects such as hallucinations or psychosis. Rarely, ataxia and delirium are also seen. Fatalities have been reported with overdose.Doxylamine possesses a significant degree of anticholinergic effects, which can result in thickening of bronchial secretions, xerostomia, urinary retention, insomnia, irritability, nervousness, mydriasis, restlessness, xerophthalmia, and/or blurred vision. Geriatric patients are more susceptible to these adverse reactions, since endogenous cholinergic activity declines with age.H1-antagonists may cause adverse GI effects including diarrhea, constipation or abdominal pain. The latter adverse reaction may be relieved by taking doxylamine with food or milk.Adverse cardiovascular responses are likely to be associated with the anticholinergic properties or the quinidine-like anesthetic effects of H1-antagonists. These responses can include sinus tachycardia, extrasystoles, palpitations, and/or cardiac arrhythmias. Alpha-adrenergic blockade can lead to symptoms of hypotension. Hypertension can also occur, but is usually not of clinical significance.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    agitation, appetite stimulation, asthenia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, impaired cognition, insomnia, myasthenia, palpitations, restlessness, seizures, weakness
    General Information
    Doxylamine is a sedating H1-antagonist antihistamine, and CNS depression manifested as drowsiness and/or dizziness can occur during therapy with drugs in this class. Less frequently occurring CNS effects of sedating antihistamines include asthenia/weakness, confusion, myasthenia, fatigue, and headache. There is considerable individual patient response to sedative effects, so patients should be warned of the possible impairment of mental acuity. These side effects may disappear after a few days of treatment. Geriatric patients may be more predisposed to adverse CNS depressant effects such as impaired cognition, particularly with higher dosages. Ethanol intake will increase the risk of sedation. If sedation persists or is severe, a dosage reduction or switching to a non-sedating H1-antagonist may be advisable. Elderly persons and pediatric patients taking antihistamines have the greatest risk of CNS related side effects. Doxylamine, like many antihistamines, can cause a paradoxical CNS stimulation, although, this is more likely to occur in children. CNS stimulatory symptoms may include agitation, appetite stimulation, restlessness, insomnia, palpitations, muscle spasms, and in severe cases, seizures.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      appetite stimulation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myasthenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    ataxia, delirium, diplopia, dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, hallucinations, lethargy, tremor
    General Information
    Central nervous system adverse reactions that may be associated with use of sedating H1-antagonist antihistamines, such as doxylamine, include dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, ataxia, lethargy, fatigue, diplopia, insomnia, hallucinations, and delirium. In rare cases, use of sedating H1-antagonist antihistamines can cause involuntary motor activity (i.e., tremor, seizure) and death. These effects are typically seen with doses significantly higher than recommended or when used in combination with other CNS depressants. Overdose of drugs in this class most commonly lead to hypersedation and vomiting.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dystonic reaction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    blurred vision, irritability, mydriasis, photosensitivity, urinary retention, xerophthalmia, xerostomia
    General Information
    Doxylamine possesses a significant degree of anticholinergic effects, which can result in thickening of bronchial secretions, xerostomia, urinary retention, insomnia, irritability, nervousness, mydriasis, restlessness, xerophthalmia, and/or blurred vision. Geriatric patients are more susceptible to these adverse reactions, since endogenous cholinergic activity declines with age. Additional adverse reactions associated with sedating H1-antagonist antihistamines include photosensitivity, respiratory depression, and apnea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      mydriasis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea
    General Information
    H1-antagonists may cause adverse GI effects including diarrhea, constipation, or abdominal pain. Abdominal pain may be relieved by taking doxylamine with food or milk.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    bradycardia, hypotension, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Adverse cardiovascular responses to doxylamine are likely associated with the anticholinergic properties or the quinidine-like anesthetic effects of H1-antagonists. These responses can include sinus tachycardia, bradycardia, hypotension, extrasystoles, palpitations, and/or cardiac arrhythmias. Alpha-adrenergic blockade can lead to symptoms of hypotension.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Doxylamine is an oral first-generation, sedating antihistamine (H1-blocker) of the ethanolamine class. Ethanolamine class antihistamines have significant antimuscarinic activity and produce marked sedation in most patients. Due to its ability to induce drowsiness, doxylamine is often promoted as a non-prescription (OTC) treatment for sleep. Oral formulations are also used to treat allergic rhinitis and some symptoms associated with the common cold; doxylamine is often found in marketed nonprescription (OTC) cough/cold combination products.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Doxylamine does not prevent the release of histamine, as do cromolyn and nedocromil, but rather competes with free histamine for binding at the H1-receptor sites. Like other antihistamines, doxylamine competitively antagonizes the effects of histamine on H1-receptors in the GI tract, uterus, large blood vessels, and bronchial muscle. Blockade of H1-receptors also suppresses the formation of edema, flare, and pruritus that result from histaminic activity. Unlike second generation antihistamines such as loratadine and cetirizine which selectively block peripheral H1-receptors, first generation antihistamines such as doxylamine bind non-selectively to H1-receptors centrally and peripherally. Thus, sedative effects are more likely to occur with first generation antihistamines, especially the ethanolamine group. Doxylamine belongs to the ethanolamine group, and thus is commonly promoted as a sleep-aid. Following prolonged use, tolerance can occur, but this may be beneficial, dependent on the indication for drug use, because of reduced sedative effects.
 
H1-antagonists are structurally similar to anticholinergic agents and therefore possess anticholinergic properties of varying degrees. Ethanolamine derivatives have greater anticholinergic activity than do other antihistamines, thus commonly producing side effects such as dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation and urinary retention. These anticholinergic actions appear to be due to a central antimuscarinic effect which also may be responsible for the antiemetic effects seen with this class, although the exact mechanism is unknown.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The exact bioavailability of doxylamine has not been described, however, H1-antagonists are generally well absorbed following oral administration. Their onset of action varies according to their solubility, with less soluble H1-antagonists having a slower onset of action and less likelihood of toxicity. Peak plasma concentrations of doxylamine are reached 2—3 hours following oral administration and the duration of action is 3—8 hours.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Hepatic dysfunction may decrease doxylamine clearance, but no specific data are available.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In general, antihistamines, like doxylamine, are not expected to be significantly dialyzable due to their large volume of distribution.
    Name
    Elderly
    Description
    The elimination half-life of doxylamine is prolonged in the elderly. The results of a single dose study in healthy, elderly volunteers indicate that the clearance of the drug is reduced and the elimination half-life is increased to 12.2 hours in elderly females and 15.5 hours in elderly males.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The results of a single dose study in healthy, elderly volunteers indicate that the clearance of doxylamine is reduced and the elimination half-life is increased to 12.2 hours in elderly females and 15.5 hours in elderly males.
  Text
  Doxylamine is administered orally. In general, antihistamines have a large volume of distribution.
 
The primary metabolic route for doxylamine appears to be N-dealkylation and N-acetyl conjugation in the liver, resulting in the formation of the metabolites N-desmethyldoxylamine, N,N-didesmethyldoxylamine, and N-acetyl conjugates of these metabolites. The drug has an elimination half-life of 10 hours in healthy adults.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Tablets
If used for sleep, administer 30 minutes before bedtime.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    25 mg/day PO for insomnia.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    25 mg/day PO for insomnia.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    25 mg/day PO for insomnia.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: 25 mg/day PO for insomnia.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
