=== Aclidinium — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3775)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Aclidinium bromide is an inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA).

Routes: inhalation; Common adult doses: 800 mcg (2 actuations)/day via oral inhalation.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, cough, pharyngitis, rash (unspecified), rhinitis, sinusitis, urticaria, blurred vision, corneal edema, ocular hypertension, ocular pain, visual impairment, dysuria, prostatic hypertrophy, urethral pain, urinary retention

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Aclidinium is contraindicated in individuals with a severe milk protein hypersensitivity since the product contains lactose, which contains milk proteins.

ACLIDINIUM

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

TUDORZA PRESSAIR

Indication Specific Dosing

For the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (e.g., chronic bronchitis and emphysema)

Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation powder)
Adults


400 mcg (1 actuation of 400 mcg/actuation) inhaled by mouth twice daily. Max: 800 mcg/day (2 actuations/day).


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Aclidinium is contraindicated in individuals with a severe milk protein hypersensitivity since the product contains lactose, which contains milk proteins. If an immediate hypersensitivity reaction occurs, immediately discontinue therapy with aclidinium and consider alternative treatment.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Do not use aclidinium as a reliever therapy for acute bronchospasm. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled short-acting beta agonist (SABA). Increasing use of inhaled SABAs is one marker of deteriorating COPD. In this situation, the individual requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen.

bladder obstruction, prostatic hypertrophy, urinary retention


Aclidinium, like all anticholinergics, should be used with caution in people with urinary retention. Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of urinary retention (e.g., difficulty passing urine, painful urination), especially in people with prostatic hypertrophy or bladder obstruction. Instruct treated patients to consult a care provider immediately if any of these signs or symptoms develop.


pregnancy


There are no adequate and well controlled studies of aclidinium during human pregnancy to inform medication associated risk. No adverse developmental effects were seen with the administration of inhaled aclidinium to pregnant animals during organogenesis at 15 or 20 times the maximum recommended human daily inhaled dose (MRHDID). However, reduced pup weights were seen when pregnant rats continued inhalation administration from gestation day 6 through lactation at 5 times the MRHDID of aclidinium. Maternal toxicity was also observed. Adverse developmental effects occurred when rabbits were orally dosed with aclidinium at approximately 1,400 times the MRHDID.


closed-angle glaucoma


Aclidinium should be used with caution in individuals with closed-angle glaucoma since it may increase intraocular pressure and aqueous outflow resistance. Treated individuals should contact a care provider immediately if they experience temporary ocular pain, mydriasis, cycloplegia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, or visual impairment.


breast-feeding


Use aclidinium with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the effects of aclidinium on breastfed infants, milk production, or its presence in human milk. Aclidinium is present in the milk of lactating rats. Because aclidinium is rapidly metabolized to inactive metabolites, maternal serum concentrations are low; hence, exposure in the breast-fed child is expected to be minimal.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate and well controlled studies of aclidinium during human pregnancy to inform medication associated risk. No adverse developmental effects were seen with the administration of inhaled aclidinium to pregnant animals during organogenesis at 15 or 20 times the maximum recommended human daily inhaled dose (MRHDID). However, reduced pup weights were seen when pregnant rats continued inhalation administration from gestation day 6 through lactation at 5 times the MRHDID of aclidinium. Maternal toxicity was also observed. Adverse developmental effects occurred when rabbits were orally dosed with aclidinium at approximately 1,400 times the MRHDID.


Interactions

Anticholinergics: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Atropine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Ipratropium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Methacholine: (Major) Discontinue use of aclidinium 168 hours or more before a methacholine challenge test. Aclidinium inhibits the airway response to methacholine.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Tiotropium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Umeclidinium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.


Adverse Reaction
anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, cough, pharyngitis, rash (unspecified), rhinitis, sinusitis, urticaria


Aclidinium may cause paradoxical bronchospasm. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, urticaria, rash (unspecified), bronchospasm, or itching have been reported after administration of aclidinium. If such reactions occur, immediately discontinue therapy with aclidinium and consider alternative treatment. Other respiratory adverse events that have been reported in clinical trials include naso-pharyngitis (5.5%), cough (3%), sinusitis (1.7%), and rhinitis (1.6%).


diarrhea, vomiting, xerostomia


Gastrointestinal (GI) effects associated with aclidinium bromide inhalation include diarrhea (2.7%) vomiting (1.1%), and xerostomia (<1%).


dental pain, headache


Headache (6.6%) and toothache or dental pain (1.1%) have been reported in patients receiving aclidinium bromide inhalation.


blurred vision, corneal edema, ocular hypertension, ocular pain, visual impairment


Aclidinium may increase intraocular pressure and aqueous outflow resistance and may precipitate or exacerbate ocular hypertension or closed-angle glaucoma. Advise patients to promptly report new-onset signs and symptoms of glaucoma including ocular pain or discomfort, blurred vision, visual impairment with halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema.


dysuria, prostatic hypertrophy, urethral pain, urinary retention


Urinary retention due to anticholinergic effects, although unlikely, might occur if significant amounts of aclidinium are absorbed systemically. Advise patients to promptly report new-onset signs and symptoms of prostatic hypertrophy or bladder neck obstruction including urinary retention or urethral pain/painful urination/dysuria. Use aclidinium cautiously in patients with urinary retention, pre-existing prostatic hypertrophy or other urinary tract disorders.


AV block, cardiac arrest, heart failure


Cardiovascular adverse events reported during clinical trials of aclidinium bromide inhalation with an incidence of < 1% include 1st degree AV block, heart failure, and cardiac arrest.


diabetes mellitus


In clinical trials, diabetes mellitus and osteoarthritis have been reported with an incidence of < 1%. In addition, 1.1% of patients reported a fall. The association of these effects with the drug or incidence in relation to placebo incidence was not reported.


Description

Aclidinium bromide is an inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA). It is given twice daily for the long-term maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Statistically significant improvements in bronchodilation were demonstrated in all 3 placebo-controlled safety and efficacy trials. Guidelines recommend bronchodilator therapy as initial treatment for individuals with COPD in Group A; a long-acting bronchodilator is preferred except in individuals with very occasional breathlessness. LAMAs are an option for initial monotherapy, and evidence suggests they have a greater effect on exacerbation reduction than LABAs and may reduce hospitalizations. For individuals in Group B and Group E, guidelines recommend initial therapy with a LABA plus LAMA combination. Aclidinium bromide is not indicated for acute bronchospasm or for the treatment of asthma.

Mechanism Of Action

Aclidinium is a respiratory antimuscarinic or long-acting antimuscarinic antagonist (LAMA), which is often referred to as an anticholinergic. It has similar affinity to the subtypes of muscarinic receptors M1—M5. Bronchodilation occurs through aclidinium's inhibition of the M3 receptor in the smooth muscle of the airways. The competitive and reversible nature of antagonism was exhibited with human and animal origin receptors and isolated organ preparations. Prevention of acetylcholine-induced bronchoconstriction was shown to be dose-dependent in preclinical in vitro and in vivo studies. The effect lasted longer than 24 hours. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. After inhalation of aclidinium, bronchodilation is predominantly a site-specific effect.

Pharmacokinetics

Aclidinium is administered as a dry-powder via oral inhalation. The volume of distribution following 400 mcg IV of aclidinium is approximately 300 L. The major route of metabolism is hydrolysis, which occurs both chemically and enzymatically by esterases. Aclidinium is rapidly and extensively hydrolyzed to its alcohol and dithienylglycolic acid derivatives, neither which binds to muscarinic receptors and are devoid of pharmacologic activity. Following an IV dose of aclidinium in young, healthy volunteers with an inter-individual variability of 36%, the total clearance was approximately 170 L/h. Radiolabelled aclidinium was administered intravenously to healthy volunteers and was extensively metabolized with 1% excreted as unchanged aclidinium. Approximately 54—65% of the radioactivity was excreted in urine and 20—33% of the dose was excreted in feces. Almost the entire dose was eliminated by hydrolysis. After dry powder inhalation, urinary excretion of aclidinium is about 0.09% of the dose and the estimated effective half-life is 5—8 hours.
 
Pharmacodynamically, improvement in lung function, as assessed by serial spirometry, persisted for up to 12 hours following a single dose in clinical studies. Onset of improvement was typically noted within 30 minutes of an oral inhalation during the first day of treatment.
 
Due to the low plasma levels achieved at the clinically relevant doses, aclidinium and its metabolites are not expected to alter the disposition of drugs metabolized by the human CYP450 enzyme system. In addition, in vitro studies using human liver microsomes indicated that aclidinium and its major metabolites do not inhibit CYP450, 1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, 3A4/5 or 4A9/11 at concentrations up to 1,000-fold higher than the maximum plasma concentration that would be expected to be achieved at the therapeutic dose. Therefore, it is unlikely that aclidinium causes CYP450 related drug interactions.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Inhalation Route

The absolute bioavailability of aclidinium is approximately 6% in healthy volunteers. Following twice-daily oral inhalation administration of 400 mcg aclidinium in healthy subjects, peak steady state plasma levels were observed within 10 minutes after inhalation.

Hepatic Impairment

The pharmacokinetics of aclidinium were not studied in patients with hepatic impairment. However, hepatic insufficiency is not expected to have relevant influence on aclidinium pharmacokinetics, since it is predominantly metabolized by chemical and enzymatic hydrolysis to products that do not bind to muscarinic receptors.

Renal Impairment

The pharmacokinetics of aclidinium was studied in 18 subjects with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment. The AUC and Cmax of aclidinium and its main metabolites following single doses of 400 mcg aclidinium were similar in renally impaired patients compared with 6 matched healthy control subjects. No dose adjustment is necessary in renally impaired patients.

Geriatric

The pharmacokinetics of aclidinium and its main metabolites were assessed in 12 elderly COPD patients (>= 70 years) compared to a younger adult cohort of 12 COPD patients (40—59 years) that were administered 400 mcg aclidinium once daily for 3 days via inhalation; no clinically significant differences in AUC and Cmax were evident. No dosage adjustment is necessary in elderly patients.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Inhalation Administration
Oral Inhalation Administration

Breath-actuated Dry Powder Inhaler (DPI) (e.g., Tudorza Pressair)
Each actuation delivers 375 mcg of aclidinium bromide from the mouthpiece.
Prior to initial use, remove the inhaler from the sealed bag and discard the bag.
The protective cap should be removed by lightly squeezing the arrows marked on each side of the cap and pulling outwards. Ensure that nothing is blocking the mouthpiece.
Instruct the patient to hold the inhaler with the mouthpiece facing them, but not inside their mouth. The green button should face straight up.
Before placing the inhaler into their mouth, they should press the green button all the way down and then release it; they should not continue to hold it down. Once the green button is pressed, the control window will change from red to green, indicating that the medication is ready for inhalation. If the control window remains red, repeat the press and release actions until the control window is green.
Before inhaling the dose, have the patient breathe out completely away from the inhaler; they should never breathe out into the inhaler.
Instruct the patient to put their lips tightly around the mouthpiece and to breathe in through the mouth quickly and deeply until a "click" sound is heard; this lets the patient know that they have inhaled the full dose. It is important that the patient does NOT hold down the green button while they are breathing in the dose.
The patient should remove the inhaler from their mouth and hold their breath for as long as is comfortable, then breathe out slowly through their nose.
Although some patients may taste the medication during their inhalation, they should not take an extra dose if they do not taste anything after inhaling it.
The control window should turn red after the full dose has been inhaled. If it remains green after the dose is inhaled, the inhalation process should be repeated. If correct inhalation has not been achieved after several attempts, the doctor or healthcare professional should be contacted.
Once the window has turned red, the protective cap should be placed back onto the inhaler by pressing it back onto the mouthpiece.
The dose indicator displays how many doses are left. The first time the inhaler is used, the indicator will display the number 60. The indicator number will count down as the patient uses the inhaler; the indicator moves slowly, displaying intervals of 10 (60, 50, 40, 30, 20, 10, 0). As the patient is nearing their last dose, a red band begins to appear to warn that a new aclidinium inhaler is needed.
The inhaler should be discarded after one of the following occurs: the marking "0" with a red background shows in the middle of the dose indicator, or the device locks out, or after 45 days after the inhaler is removed from the sealed bag, whichever comes first.
The inhaler does not need to be cleaned; the mouthpiece can be wiped with a dry tissue or paper towel. Water should never be used as it may damage the inhaler.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

800 mcg (2 actuations)/day via oral inhalation.

Geriatric

800 mcg (2 actuations)/day via oral inhalation.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

DUAKLIR PRESSAIR 400mcg-12mcg/actuation Powder for Inhalation

Duaklir Pressair 400mcg-12mcg/actuation Powder for Inhalation

Duaklir Pressair 400mcg-12mcg/actuation Powder for Inhalation

Tudorza Pressair 400mcg/actuation Powder for Inhalation

Tudorza Pressair 400mcg/actuation Powder for Inhalation

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier