=== Vepdegestrant (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5666)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Vepdegestrant is an oral heterobifunctional PROteolysis TArgeting Chimera (PROTAC) protein degrader that binds to the estrogen receptor (ER) and the E3 ligase cereblon, leading to a reduction of ER protein levels in breast cancer cells.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 200 mg PO once daily.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Avoid use of vepdegestrant in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia... Emetic risk: Minimal/low Hazardous drug: Approved by FDA after NIOSH 2024 list was published and...

Brand Names
  - VEPPANU

Dosage Forms
  - VEPPANU 100mg Tablet
  - VEPPANU 100mg Tablet
  - VEPPANU 200mg Tablet
  - VEPPANU 200mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of estrogen receptor (ER)-positive, HER2-negative, estrogen receptor-1 (ESR1)-mutated advanced or metastatic breast cancer with disease progression following at least 1 line of endocrine therapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          200 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with vepdegestrant significantly improved progression-free survival (PFS) as assessed by blinded independent central review compared with fulvestrant (5 months vs. 2.1 months) in patients with ESR1-mutated, ER-positive, HER2-negative, advanced or metastatic breast cancer in a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (VERITAC-2); overall survival data were immature at the time of the PFS analysis. The confirmed objective response rate was 19% in patients treated with vepdegestrant compared with 4% in those who received fulvestrant (all partial responses). All patients were required to have progressed on 1 to 2 prior lines of endocrine therapy (including 1 line with a CDK4/6 inhibitor), and were excluded if they had received fulvestrant in any line of therapy or prior chemotherapy for advanced or metastatic disease; pre/perimenopausal women (20% of 269 women) and men also received gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist therapy.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of breast cancer

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of vepdegestrant in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to and during treatment. Perform an ECG at baseline and do not initiate treatment in patients with QTc greater than 470 msec; repeat an ECG approximately 4 weeks after initiating therapy and as clinically indicated; additional monitoring may be necessary in patients with congenital long QTc syndrome, congestive heart failure, electrolyte abnormalities, or those who are taking medications known to prolong the QTc interval.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of vepdegestrant during pregnancy. Vepdegestrant can cause fetal harm, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. In an embryofetal study, oral administration of vepdegestrant to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in embryofetal mortality (e.g., increased resorptions, postimplantation loss, and reduced number of live fetuses) as well as reduced fetal weight and skeletal abnormalities including delays in skeletal ossification (reduced number of ossification sites, incompletely ossified cervical arches or thoracic centra), skeletal malformations (fusion of sacral centra, hemivertebrae of the sacrum), and increased incidence of fetal variations (short cervical ribs, misaligned caudal vertebrae, misshapen cervical arches, and misaligned sacral vertebrae) at exposures approximately 0.3 times the human AUC at the recommended dose. Apprise individuals receiving vepdegestrant of the potential hazard to the fetus.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with vepdegestrant therapy. Vepdegestrant may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise individuals to use effective contraception while taking vepdegestrant and for 2 weeks after the last dose. Based on animal data, vepdegestrant may cause male and female infertility; the effects were reversible in female animals.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during vepdegestrant treatment and for 2 weeks after the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of vepdegestrant or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of vepdegestrant during pregnancy. Vepdegestrant can cause fetal harm, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. In an embryofetal study, oral administration of vepdegestrant to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in embryofetal mortality (e.g., increased resorptions, postimplantation loss, and reduced number of live fetuses) as well as reduced fetal weight and skeletal abnormalities including delays in skeletal ossification (reduced number of ossification sites, incompletely ossified cervical arches or thoracic centra), skeletal malformations (fusion of sacral centra, hemivertebrae of the sacrum), and increased incidence of fetal variations (short cervical ribs, misaligned caudal vertebrae, misshapen cervical arches, and misaligned sacral vertebrae) at exposures approximately 0.3 times the human AUC at the recommended dose. Apprise individuals receiving vepdegestrant of the potential hazard to the fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during vepdegestrant treatment and for 2 weeks after the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of vepdegestrant or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for dolutegravir toxicity if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and UGT1A9 substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp and UGT1A9 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with vepdegestrant may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with vepdegestrant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of vepdegestrant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and adagrasib due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of vepdegestrant and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of vepdegestrant. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and vepdegestrant due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with vepdegestrant, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and amiodarone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Apomorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and aripiprazole increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other aripiprazole-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus vepdegestrant, an aripiprazole dosage adjustment may be required. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with vepdegestrant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of vepdegestrant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and atazanavir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and atazanavir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase buprenorphine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when vepdegestrant is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, buprenorphine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to buprenorphine. Buprenorphine is CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase buprenorphine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when vepdegestrant is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, buprenorphine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to buprenorphine. Buprenorphine is CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with vepdegestrant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of vepdegestrant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with vepdegestrant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of vepdegestrant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Carbamazepine exposure may also increase which may increase the risk for carbamazepine-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Additionally, monitor carbamazepine concentrations and consider a carbamazepine dosage reduction as appropriate based on response. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of vepdegestrant, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ceritinib due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and chloramphenicol due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with vepdegestrant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of vepdegestrant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and cisapride due to the risk for increased cisapride exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and clofazimine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and clozapine increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase clozapine exposure and the risk for other clozapine-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a clozapine dosage reduction and take steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Clozapine is a CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with vepdegestrant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of vepdegestrant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with vepdegestrant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of vepdegestrant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with vepdegestrant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of vepdegestrant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with vepdegestrant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of vepdegestrant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with vepdegestrant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of vepdegestrant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with vepdegestrant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of vepdegestrant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and vepdegestrant due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and crizotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use was observed to increase dabigatran overall exposure by 2-fold.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and darunavir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and darunavir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and darunavir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dasatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and dasatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Degarelix: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and dexmedetomidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing vepdegestrant. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and disopyramide increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase disopyramide exposure and the risk other disopyramide-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and dofetilide increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk for other dofetilide-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for dolutegravir toxicity if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and UGT1A9 substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp and UGT1A9 inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for dolutegravir toxicity if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and UGT1A9 substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp and UGT1A9 inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for dolutegravir toxicity if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and UGT1A9 substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp and UGT1A9 inhibitor.
Donepezil: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vepdegestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and dordaviprone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vepdegestrant with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vepdegestrant with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with vepdegestrant. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of vepdegestrant. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of vepdegestrant; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and efavirenz increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and efavirenz increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vepdegestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and efavirenz increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vepdegestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and eliglustat. If concomitant use is necessary in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers with mild hepatic impairment, reduce the eliglustat dosage to 84 mg PO once daily and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk for eliglustat-related adverse effects and increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vepdegestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vepdegestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vepdegestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure and efficacy and increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with vepdegestrant due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and vepdegestrant should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperkalemia and reduce the finerenone dosage as appropriate based on observed changes in serum potassium values if concomitant use of finerenone and vepdegestrant is required. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk for finerenone-related adverse effects, such as hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased finerenone overall exposure by 21%.
Fingolimod: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and fingolimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors, including vepdegestrant, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
Fluconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and fluconazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of vepdegestrant and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and fluvoxamine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and injectable fosfomycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and injectable fosfomycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Ganaxolone: (Moderate) Monitor for ganaxolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with vepdegestrant is necessary. For those on a stable maintenance dose of ganaxolone, consider a ganaxolone dosage reduction. Concomitant use may increase ganaxolone exposure. Ganaxolone is a UGT1A9 substrate and vepdegestrant is a UGT1A9 inhibitor.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and gemifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and gemtuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and gepotidacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and givinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and vepdegestrant as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-gp and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Goserelin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Granisetron: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and granisetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during vepdegestrant treatment due to the risk of increased vepdegestrant exposure and adverse reactions. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and haloperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and hydroxyzine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and idelalisib due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and inotuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and itraconazole due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vepdegestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Lapatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and lapatinib increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase lapatinib exposure and the risk for other lapatinib-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and lefamulin. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase lefamulin exposure in those receiving oral lefamulin. If concomitant use is necessary, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Oral lefamulin is a P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with vepdegestrant as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Leuprolide: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and lonafarnib. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dosage to 100 mg daily and reduce the lonafarnib dosage to 115 mg/m2. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and lonafarnib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and loperamide increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and loperamide increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ritonavir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold. (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and lopinavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lorazepam-related adverse reactions and consider reducing the dose of lorazepam if concomitant use of lorazepam and vepdegestrant is necessary. Avoid lorazepam extended-release capsules and utilize lorazepam immediate-release dosage forms that can be easily titrated. Lorazepam is an UGT substrate and vepdegestrant is an UGT1A9 inhibitor.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and mavorixafor increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of other mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the mavorixafor daily dosage in 100 mg increments based on response to a minimum of 200 mg. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Mefloquine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and mefloquine increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mefloquine exposure and the risk for other mefloquine-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mefloquine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with vepdegestrant can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and methadone increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly if vepdegestrant is added after a stable methadone dose is achieved. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a methadone dose reduction with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and vepdegestrant. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with vepdegestrant. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use was observed to increase midazolam overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and mifepristone due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with vepdegestrant. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and vepdegestrant. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and nefazodone due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and nelfinavir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Nilotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and nilotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A and vepdegestrant is a dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ritonavir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with vepdegestrant due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like vepdegestrant can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pasireotide: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and pazopanib. Concomitant use may increase pazopanib exposure and the risk for pazopanib-related adverse effects and increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pazopanib is a P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of vepdegestrant and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of vepdegestrant and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pexidartinib and vepdegestrant due to the risk of increased pexidartinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pexidartinib dosage as follows: 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg twice daily; 250 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg once daily. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, increase the pexidartinib dose to the original dose after 3 plasma half-lives of vepdegestrant. Pexidartinib is a UGT substrate; vepdegestrant is a UGT1A9 inhibitor. Coadministration of another UGT inhibitor increased pexidartinib exposure by 60%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and pimozide due to the risk for increased pimozide exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pimozide is a CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and posaconazole. Use may increase the exposure of both drugs and result in additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor, posaconazole is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 1.8-fold.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and primaquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and vepdegestrant due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of vepdegestrant and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and propafenone increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase propafenone exposure and the risk for other propafenone-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP, those receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor, or with CYP2D6 deficiency. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ranolazine increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ranolazine exposure and the risk for other ranolazine-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a ranolazine dosage reduction. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and relacorilant due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and relugolix. If concomitant use is necessary, administer vepdegestrant at least 6 hours after relugolix and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk for relugolix-related adverse effects and increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and relugolix. If concomitant use is necessary, administer vepdegestrant at least 6 hours after relugolix and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk for relugolix-related adverse effects and increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with vepdegestrant due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and revumenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). In addition, ribociclib at a dose of 600 mg/day may increase vepdegestrant exposure and the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use of ribociclib 600 mg/day is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib at a dose of 600 mg/day acts as a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). In addition, ribociclib at a dose of 600 mg/day may increase vepdegestrant exposure and the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use of ribociclib 600 mg/day is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib at a dose of 600 mg/day acts as a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with vepdegestrant; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and risperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ritonavir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and saquinavir. Use may increase the exposure of both drugs and result in additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor, saquinavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and sertraline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and vepdegestrant due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of vepdegestrant. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Solifenacin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and solifenacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if vepdegestrant must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like vepdegestrant can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If vepdegestrant is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
SUNItinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and sunitinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and tacrolimus increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase tacrolimus exposure and the risk for other tacrolimus-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, a tacrolimus dosage reduction may be required. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Tacrolimus is a CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and taletrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and tamoxifen increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with vepdegestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and tipranavir due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. Tipranavir exposure may also increase. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and tipranavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Tolterodine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and tolterodine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vepdegestrant with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; vepdegestrant may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of vepdegestrant, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of vepdegestrant, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with vepdegestrant. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of vepdegestrant and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Triptorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and tucatinib due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure which may increase the risk for vepdegestrant-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with vepdegestrant. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and vardenafil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with vepdegestrant due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and venlafaxine increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase venlafaxine exposure and the risk for other venlafaxine-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a venlafaxine dosage reduction. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Venlafaxine is a CYP3A substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased venlafaxine overall exposure by approximately 1.5-fold.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of vepdegestrant is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of vepdegestrant is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and voclosporin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and voriconazole due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Vorinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with vepdegestrant is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and vepdegestrant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ziftomenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    bradycardia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    QT prolongation occurred in 10% of patients treated with vepdegestrant compared with 1.3% of those who received fulvestrant in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3, 1.6% vs. 0.3%). The heart-rate corrected QTc interval using Fridericia's method (QTcF) was greater than 500 msec in 1.6% of vepdegestrant-treated patients, and the increase from baseline was greater than 60 msec in 2.6%. Correct any electrolyte abnormalities if QT prolongation occurs; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity. Bradycardia was reported in fewer than 10% of patients treated with vepdegestrant in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on findings from animal studies, vepdegestrant may cause infertility in males and females; the effects of vepdegestrant on female fertility were reversible.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain occurred in 30% of patients treated with vepdegestrant compared with 23% of those who received fulvestrant in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3, 2.6% vs. 1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bone fractures
    General Information
    Bone fractures (1.3%) and serious falls (0.6%) were reported in patients treated with vepdegestrant in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bone fractures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue occurred in 29% of patients treated with vepdegestrant compared with 16% of those who received fulvestrant in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3, 1% vs. 1.3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea (14% vs. 9%; grade 3, 0% vs. 1%), constipation (10% vs. 3.3%), diarrhea (less than 10%), vomiting (less than 10%) occurred in patients treated with vepdegestrant in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia
    General Information
    Anorexia or decreased appetite occurred in 11% of patients treated with vepdegestrant compared with 5% of those who received fulvestrant in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3, 0.3% vs. 0%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hot flashes
    General Information
    Hot flashes occurred in fewer than 10% of patients treated with vepdegestrant in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache was reported in fewer than 10% of patients treated with vepdegestrant in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Urinary tract infection was reported in fewer than 10% of patients treated with vepdegestrant in a randomized clinical trial; serious cases of pneumonia were reported in 0.6% of patients who received vepdegestrant.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    leukopenia, neutropenia
    General Information
    Leukopenia and neutropenia have occurred in patients treated with vepdegestrant, with decreases from baseline in white blood cells (33% vs. 15%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3% vs. 0.7%) and neutrophils (23% vs. 13%; grade 3 or 4, 2.3% vs. 0.7%) reported more often in patients who received vepdegestrant compared with those who received fulvestrant in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes and hyperbilirubinemia have been reported in patients treated with vepdegestrant, with increases from baseline in AST (31% vs. 23%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6% vs. 1.7%), ALT (22% vs. 23%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6% vs. 1%), and bilirubin (14% vs. 8%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 1.3%) reported more often in patients who received vepdegestrant compared with those who received fulvestrant in a randomized clinical trial; increases in alkaline phosphatase from baseline occurred in 21% of patients treated with vepdegestrant versus 23% of those who received fulvestrant (grade 3 or 4, 0% vs. 0.3%). Serious cases of hepatic injury were reported in 0.6% of patients who received vepdegestrant.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia
    General Information
    Anemia has been reported in patients treated with vepdegestrant, with decreases from baseline in hemoglobin reported more often in patients who received vepdegestrant compared with those who received fulvestrant in a randomized clinical trial (24% vs. 20%; grade 3 or 4, 2.3% vs. 3.6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Thrombocytopenia has been reported in patients treated with vepdegestrant, with decreases from baseline in platelets reported less often in patients who received vepdegestrant compared with those who received fulvestrant in a randomized clinical trial (10% vs. 11%; grade 3 or 4, 1.3% vs. 1.3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercalcemia, hypokalemia
    General Information
    Hypokalemia has been reported in patients treated with vepdegestrant, with decreases from baseline in potassium reported more often in patients who received vepdegestrant compared with those who received fulvestrant in a randomized clinical trial (14% vs. 6%; grade 3 or 4, 2.6% vs. 0.3%); serious cases of hypercalcemia were also reported in 0.6% of patients treated with vepdegestrant.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypercalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Vepdegestrant is an oral heterobifunctional PROteolysis TArgeting Chimera (PROTAC) protein degrader that binds to the estrogen receptor (ER) and the E3 ligase cereblon, leading to a reduction of ER protein levels in breast cancer cells. It is indicated for the treatment of adults with ER-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative, estrogen receptor-1 (ESR1)-mutated advanced or metastatic breast cancer with disease progression following at least one line of endocrine therapy. Vepdegestrant can cause QT prolongation; monitor ECGs and correct electrolyte abnormalities. Vepdegestrant was approved by the FDA in May 2026.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Vepdegestrant is a PROteolysis TArgeting Chimera (PROTAC) protein degrader that uses the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) within a cell to induce degradation of estrogen receptor (ER) alpha. Ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis is a part of normal protein homeostasis within a cell where proteins are identified for proteasomal degradation in a process involving ubiquitin-activating enzymes (E1), ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (E2) which carry activated ubiquitin, and ubiquitin-protein ligases (E3) which promote ubiquitin transfer to a target protein after which it can be degraded by the proteasome within the cell.
Vepdegestrant is a heterobifunctional small molecule that bridges an ER binding domain with an E3 ligase binding domain which recruits the E3 ligase cereblon (CRBN). When linked via vepdegestrant to the estrogen receptor, CRBN-mediated polyubiquitination triggers the degradation of ER by the proteasome, leading to a reduction of ER protein levels in breast cancer cells. In vitro, vepdegestrant induced degradation of wild-type (WT) and mutant ER and inhibited ER-dependent breast cancer cell line proliferation; it has also demonstrated antitumor activity in both WT and mutant ESR1 breast cancer models in vivo.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The mean Cmax of vepdegestrant at steady-state was 926 nanog/mL (CV, 39%) and the mean AUC was 17,155 nanogram x hour/mL (CV, 36%). The AUC and Cmax of vepdegestrant increase in an approximately dose proportional manner over the dose range of 100 mg to 500 mg (0.5 to 2.5 times the approved recommended dose). Vepdegestrant accumulation is approximately 1.4-fold for AUC and 1.3-fold for Cmax; steady state is reached in approximately 7 days with a Tmax of approximately 6 hours (range, 4 to 8 hours).
Following administration with a high-fat meal (approximately 800 to 1,000 calories; 50% or more calories from fat), the AUC and Cmax of vepdegestrant increased 2.9-fold and 3.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration with a proton-pump inhibitor (esomeprazole) decreased the AUC and Cmax of vepdegestrant by 16% and 26%, respectively.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin less than or equal to the upper limit of normal [ULN] and AST greater than ULN or total bilirubin more than 1 to 1.5 times ULN and any AST) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of vepdegestrant. The effect of moderate or severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin more than 1.5 times ULN and any AST) on the pharmacokinetics of vepdegestrant is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 90 mL/min) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of vepdegestrant. The effect of severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 30 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/min) on the pharmacokinetics of vepdegestrant is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (26 to 89 years) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of vepdegestrant.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of vepdegestrant.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (60% White, 27% Asian, 2.2% Black or African American, 10% other) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of vepdegestrant.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (37 to 181 kg) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of vepdegestrant.
  Text
  Vepdegestrant is administered orally. Vepdegestrant plasma protein binding is more than 99% with a mean apparent volume of distribution of 764 L (CV, 26%) following a single 200 mg dose. It is primarily metabolized through direct sulfation via multiple SULT isoforms and oxidation via CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP3A5. Unchanged total vepdegestrant represented 92% of total radioactivity in the plasma. The mean effective elimination half-life of vepdegestrant is 19 hours (CV, 50%) with a mean apparent clearance of 12 L/hour (CV, 36%). Approximately 68% of a single radiolabeled dose was recovered in the feces (18% as unchanged drug) and 1.5% in the urine (less than 0.02% as unchanged drug).
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, CYP2B6, P-gp, UGT1A9
Vepdegestrant is metabolized by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP3A5. Coadministration with itraconazole (a strong CYP3A inhibitor) increased the vepdegestrant AUC by 1.7-fold and the Cmax by 1.5-fold, while coadministration with carbamazepine (a strong CYP3A inducer) decreased the vepdegestrant AUC by 36% and Cmax by 20%. Vepdegestrant is also a weak CYP3A inhibitor, increasing the AUC and Cmax of midazolam (a CYP3A substrate) by 1.7-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. In vivo, it is also a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration with a single dose of vepdegestrant increased the dabigatran (P-gp substrate) AUC and Cmax by 2-fold and 1.9-fold, respectively. Vepdegestrant is a UGT1A9 inhibitor, as multiple doses are predicted to increase the AUC of dapagliflozin (a UGT1A9 substrate) by approximately 2-fold following multiple doses of vepdegestrant. In vitro, vepdegestrant also inhibits CYP2B6.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
Approved by FDA after NIOSH 2024 list was published and meets criteria for NIOSH Table 2 Hazardous Drugs.
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take with food.
Swallow tablets whole; do not crush, chew, dissolve, or split tablets.
If a dose is missed or if a patient vomits, administer the next dose at the regularly scheduled time.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    200 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    200 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
