=== Aluminum Chloride — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2738)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Aluminum chloride is an astringent antiperspirant used topically for the management of uncontrollable, excessive perspiration, as in hyperhidrosis.

Routes: topical; Common adult doses: 1 application/day topically to underarms; 3 applications/day topically to feet or hands.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy Aluminum chloride antiperspirant products do not carry any specific warnings against use in pregnancy. There is a lack of data on use during human pregnancy.

ALUMINUM CHLORIDE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

CERTAIN DRI, Drysol, Hypercare, Xerac AC

Indication Specific Dosing

For the prevention and treatment of hyperhidrosis

For the prevention and treatment of underarm hyperhidrosis
Topical dosage (solution)
Adults


Apply sparingly to affected area once daily at bedtime or as directed. Generally, may apply once daily at bedtime until sweating is under control (2 or more treatments), then decrease application frequency to 1 to 2 times per week, as needed. Cover treated areas by wearing a snug-fitting T-shirt while sleeping to prevent the medication from being rubbed off onto bed linens.


For the prevention and treatment of hyperhidrosis of the feet or hands
Topical dosage (lotion)
Adults


Apply a small, pea-sized amount to the affected area(s) and vigorously rub it into the area for 15 seconds 3 times daily, specifically in the evening at bedtime and 2 additional times during the day, for at least 4 weeks.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


Aluminum chloride antiperspirant products do not carry any specific warnings against use in pregnancy. There is a lack of data on use during human pregnancy. Weigh the potential benefits of use against possible risks to the fetus.


breast-feeding


Aluminum chloride is compatible with breast-feeding. Aluminum chloride antiperspirant products do not carry warnings regarding use in lactating individuals; however, minimal systemic exposure is expected with topical application.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Aluminum chloride antiperspirant products do not carry any specific warnings against use in pregnancy. There is a lack of data on use during human pregnancy. Weigh the potential benefits of use against possible risks to the fetus.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Aluminum Chloride products.

Adverse Reaction
pruritus, skin irritation


Adverse effects of topical aluminum chloride application include local skin irritation such as burning, pruritus, or prickly sensation may occur following application. Incident rates for skin irritation are not available in manufacturer labeling; however, the reactions are thought to be infrequent given the widespread use of these products within marketed antiperspirants.


Description

Aluminum chloride is an astringent antiperspirant used topically for the management of uncontrollable, excessive perspiration, as in hyperhidrosis. The prescription products are long-lasting (e.g., for several days) in duration. Non-prescription antiperspirant products are also available for use. Aluminum chloride has been used clinically since pre-1938.

Mechanism Of Action

Aluminum chloride acts by reflux entrance into the terminal intraepidermal eccrine and apocrine sweat ducts. Aluminum chloride slowly combines with intraductal keratin, to produce a fibrillar contraction of keratin and, hence, a functional closure of the duct. This closure of the eccrine and apocrine ducts stops the ducts' ability to release sweat. The altered keratin sheds within a week, returning ductal patency and sweating.

Pharmacokinetics

Aluminum chloride is applied topically to the skin. Minimal aluminum is expected to be absorbed when applied topically, however any absorbed aluminum is eliminated primarily by the kidneys.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Topical Route

Aluminum chloride works locally on outer skin and minimal systemic absorption is expected. Once the product is applied, a reduction in sweating is seen within one to two treatments (24 to 48 hours). The effects of reduced sweating begin to disappear after 48 hours of discontinuing aluminum chloride.

Renal Impairment

Minimal systemic absorption of aluminum is expected in any patient. However, patients with renal impairment have decreased elimination and increased exposure to any absorbed aluminum; use caution.

Pediatrics

The topical pharmacokinetic parameters of aluminum chloride antiperspirants are expected to be the same in adolescents as compared to adults. No data are available in children aged 12 years and under, and use is not expected in pre-pubescent children.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Topical Administration


External use only.
Avoid contact with eyes.
Do not apply to broken, irritated, or recently shaved skin.
Do not apply immediately after bathing.
Stop use if rash or irritation occurs at the application site.


Cream/Ointment/Lotion Formulations

Topical lotion
Wash and dry the soles of feet or palms of hands.
Apply a small, pea-sized amount of lotion to the affected area (i.e., soles of feet or palms of hands).
Vigorously rub the lotion into the affected area for 15 seconds.
Apply at bedtime and 2 additional times during the day.


Other Topical Formulations

Topical solution
Only apply to the underarms.
Apply sparingly to each underarm once a day, only at bedtime.
The area should be completely dry prior to application.
After application, allow the alcohol to evaporate; a thin layer of antiperspirant will be left on the skin.
Wear a snug-fitting T-shirt while sleeping to prevent the medication from being rubbed off onto bed linens.
Wash the treated area the following morning with soap and water.
Treatment is usually continued until sweating is under control, which may happen after 2 or more applications. Thereafter, apply the topical solution once or twice weekly or as needed to maintain the effect.
Use of other deodorants or antiperspirants is not recommended during the use of these products.
Solution may be flammable; use proper precautions for use.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

1 application/day topically to underarms; 3 applications/day topically to feet or hands.

Geriatric

1 application/day topically to underarms; 3 applications/day topically to feet or hands.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Aluminum Chloride Bulk powder

Aluminum Chloride Hexahydrate Bulk powder

CERTAIN DRI Antiperspirant 15% Foot Lotion

CERTAIN DRI Clinical Strength Prescription Antiperspirant Roll On 15% Topical Liquid

Drysol 20% Topical Solution

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; minimal systemic absorption of aluminum is expected. However, use with caution in patients with renal impairment due to possible decreased clearance and increased exposure to any absorbed aluminum.

© 2026 Elsevier