=== Perampanel (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3787)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Perampanel (Fycompa) is a selective, non-competitive ionotropic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist approved for the treatment of partial-onset and primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 12 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): hypertriglyceridemia, hyponatremia, weight gain, arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, peripheral edema, cough, infection, throat irritation

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Serious and life-threatening psychiatric event with behavioral changes have been reported with perampanel.

Brand Names
  - FYCOMPA

Dosage Forms
  - Fycompa 0.5mg/mL Suspension
  - Fycompa 10mg Tablet
  - Fycompa 12mg Tablet
  - Fycompa 2mg Tablet
  - Fycompa 4mg Tablet
  - Fycompa 6mg Tablet
  - Fycompa 8mg Tablet
  - Perampanel 0.5mg/1mL Oral suspension
  - Perampanel 10mg Oral tablet
  - Perampanel 12mg Oral tablet
  - Perampanel 2mg Oral tablet
  - Perampanel 4mg Oral tablet
  - Perampanel 6mg Oral tablet
  - Perampanel 8mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General Dosing Information
As with most antiepileptic drugs, withdraw perampanel gradually because of the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus.
In the event of a serious adverse reaction, rapid discontinuation can be considered..
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO once daily at bedtime initially; titrate by 2 mg/day increments at weekly intervals based on clinical response and tolerability. Dose titration should occur no more frequently than every 2 weeks in geriatric patients. The recommended maintenance dosage is 8 to 12 mg/day, although some patients may respond to 4 mg/day. Doses of 12 mg/day have produced greater seizure reduction compared to 8 mg/day; however, substantial increases in adverse events occurred with 12 mg/day dosing. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 4 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO once daily at bedtime initially; titrate by 2 mg/day increments at weekly intervals based on clinical response and tolerability. The recommended maintenance dosage is 8 to 12 mg/day, although some patients may respond to 4 mg/day. Doses of 12 mg/day have produced greater seizure reduction compared to 8 mg/day; however, substantial increases in adverse events occurred with 12 mg/day dosing. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For monotherapy or adjunctive treatment of partial seizures with or without secondary generalization
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO once daily at bedtime initially; titrate by 2 mg/day increments at weekly intervals based on clinical response and tolerability. Dose titration should occur no more than every 2 weeks in geriatric patients. The recommended maintenance dose is 8 mg/day. If a patient is tolerating 8 mg/day well and requires further seizure control, the dosage may be increased up to 12 mg/day as tolerated. Doses of 12 mg/day have produced greater seizure reduction compared to 8 mg/day; however, substantial increases in adverse events occurred with the higher dosage. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO once daily at bedtime initially; titrate by 2 mg/day increments at weekly intervals based on clinical response and tolerability. The recommended maintenance dose is 8 mg/day. If a patient is tolerating 8 mg/day well and requires further seizure control, the dosage may be increased up to 12 mg/day as tolerated. Doses of 12 mg/day have produced greater seizure reduction compared to 8 mg/day; however, substantial increases in adverse events occurred with the higher dosage. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the adjunctive treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    behavioral changes, ethanol ingestion, psychiatric disorder, psychiatric event, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Serious and life-threatening psychiatric event with behavioral changes have been reported with perampanel. These reactions occurred in individuals with and without prior psychiatric history, prior aggressive behavior, or concomitant use of medications associated with hostility and aggression. Some individuals experienced worsening of their pre-existing psychiatric disorder. Individuals with active psychotic disorders and unstable recurrent affective disorders were excluded from clinical trials. Ethanol ingestion in combination with perampanel use significantly worsened mood and increased anger; advise individuals receiving perampanel to avoid alcohol. Advise individuals, caregivers, and families that perampanel may increase the risk of psychiatric adverse events. Monitor individuals during treatment and for at least 1 month after the last dose of perampanel, and especially when taking higher doses and during the initial few weeks of drug therapy (titration period) or at other times of dose increases. Monitor for worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, or any unusual changes in behavior in individuals with mood disorder or suicidal ideation; antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including perampanel, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in individuals taking these medications for any indication. Suicidal behavior and ideation may also occur after perampanel discontinuation. When considering AED use, balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behaviors with the risk of untreated illness. The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials in subjects with epilepsy than in clinical trials in subjects with psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior. If suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment, consider whether the emergence of these symptoms may be related to the illness being treated.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Perampanel is not recommended in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. Perampanel dosage adjustment is recommended in individuals with mild or moderate hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Perampanel is not recommended in individuals with severe renal impairment, renal failure, or in those undergoing hemodialysis. Use perampanel with caution and consider slower titration in individuals with moderate renal impairment.
    Headline
    substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    Carefully evaluate individuals receiving perampanel for a history of substance abuse disorder and observe for signs of perampanel misuse or abuse (e.g., development of tolerance, dose escalation, drug-seeking behavior). Perampanel may be associated with risks of abuse and dependence.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration until they have gained sufficient experience on perampanel to gauge whether it adversely affects their ability to do so. Perampanel may cause dizziness, gait disturbance, somnolence, and fatigue.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Because of increased likelihood for adverse reactions in the elderly, titrate the perampanel dosage slowly in geriatric adults. According to the Beers Criteria, anticonvulsants are considered potentially inappropriate medications in geriatric adults with a history of falls or fractures; avoid in at-risk individuals, except for treating seizure and mood disorders, since anticonvulsants can produce ataxia, impaired psychomotor function, syncope, and additional falls. If perampanel must be used, consider reducing the use of other CNS-active medications that increase the risk of falls and fractures and implement strategies to reduce fall risk.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of perampanel during human pregnancy. Animal data suggest potential fetal harm. In rats, visceral abnormalities (diverticulum of the intestine) occurred at all doses tested during organogenesis (1, 3, and 10 mg/kg/day), with maternal toxicity at the mid and high doses; the lowest dose tested is approximately equivalent to a human dose of 8 mg/day based on body surface area. At higher doses (30 and 60 mg/kg/day), embryo-lethality and reduced fetal body weight were observed. When administered throughout gestation and lactation (1, 3, and 10 mg/kg/day), fetal and pup deaths occurred at mid and high doses (associated with maternal toxicity), and delayed sexual maturation was observed in male and female offspring at the highest dose. In rabbits, embryolethality and maternal toxicity were observed at doses of 3 and 10 mg/kg/day; the no-effect dose (1 mg/kg/day) is approximately 2 times the human dose of 8 mg/day based on body surface area. Pregnant individuals taking perampanel are encouraged to enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug (NAAED) Pregnancy Registry by calling 1-888-233-2334 or visiting https://www.aedpregnancyregistry.org.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use perampanel with caution during breast-feeding. Limited data indicate perampanel concentrations in human milk are minimal. If perampanel is required, it is not a reason to discontinue breast-feeding. Monitor the breastfed child for drowsiness, agitation, poor weight gain, and developmental milestones. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of perampanel during human pregnancy. Animal data suggest potential fetal harm. In rats, visceral abnormalities (diverticulum of the intestine) occurred at all doses tested during organogenesis (1, 3, and 10 mg/kg/day), with maternal toxicity at the mid and high doses; the lowest dose tested is approximately equivalent to a human dose of 8 mg/day based on body surface area. At higher doses (30 and 60 mg/kg/day), embryo-lethality and reduced fetal body weight were observed. When administered throughout gestation and lactation (1, 3, and 10 mg/kg/day), fetal and pup deaths occurred at mid and high doses (associated with maternal toxicity), and delayed sexual maturation was observed in male and female offspring at the highest dose. In rabbits, embryolethality and maternal toxicity were observed at doses of 3 and 10 mg/kg/day; the no-effect dose (1 mg/kg/day) is approximately 2 times the human dose of 8 mg/day based on body surface area. Pregnant individuals taking perampanel are encouraged to enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug (NAAED) Pregnancy Registry by calling 1-888-233-2334 or visiting https://www.aedpregnancyregistry.org.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use perampanel with caution during breast-feeding. Limited data indicate perampanel concentrations in human milk are minimal. If perampanel is required, it is not a reason to discontinue breast-feeding. Monitor the breastfed child for drowsiness, agitation, poor weight gain, and developmental milestones. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as amitriptyline. In addition, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, may also lower the seizure threshold. Monitor patients for changes in efficacy of perampanel.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as amoxapine. In addition, cyclic antidepressants, when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Concurrent use of perampanel with clarithromycin may increase exposure to perampanel and increase plasma concentrations. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an enzyme responsible for perampanel metabolism. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger, anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
Apalutamide: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to apalutamide therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If apalutamide is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased perampanel exposure by 50% to 67%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if perampanel and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in perampanel-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of perampanel. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important. Perampanel is also a weak in vitro CYP3A4 inhibitor and aprepitant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of daily oral aprepitant (230 mg, or 1.8 times the recommended single dose) with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, diltiazem, increased the aprepitant AUC 2-fold with a concomitant 1.7-fold increase in the diltiazem AUC; clinically meaningful changes in ECG, heart rate, or blood pressure beyond those induced by diltiazem alone did not occur. Information is not available regarding the use of aprepitant with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Armodafinil: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with armodafinil due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of armodafinil occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Armodafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as carisoprodol. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Atazanavir: (Major) Caution is warranted when atazanavir is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of atazanavir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Caution is warranted when atazanavir is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of atazanavir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor. (Major) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with perampanel can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Bexarotene: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with bexarotene due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of bexarotene occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Bosentan: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with bosentan due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of bosentan occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as buspirone.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and perampanel. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with carbamazepine due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of carbamazepine occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate. Steady state administration of carbamazepine 300 mg twice daily with a single dose of perampanel 2 mg reduced the Cmax of perampanel by 26% and AUC by 67%. The half-life of perampanel decreased from 56.8 hours to 25 hours.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as entacapone.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as carisoprodol.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Cenobamate: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to cenobamate therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If cenobamate is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration may decrease perampanel plasma concentrations. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and perampanel. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with perampanel should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with perampanel should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as amitriptyline. In addition, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, may also lower the seizure threshold. Monitor patients for changes in efficacy of perampanel. (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Concurrent use of perampanel with clarithromycin may increase exposure to perampanel and increase plasma concentrations. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an enzyme responsible for perampanel metabolism. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger, anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as clomipramine. In addition, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as clozapine.
Cobicistat: (Major) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) If concurrent use of cobimetinib and perampanel is necessary, use caution and monitor for decreased efficacy of cobimetinib. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A substrate in vitro, and perampanel is a weak in vitro inducer of CYP3A. The manufacturer of cobimetinib recommends avoiding coadministration of cobimetinib with moderate or strong CYP3A inducers based on simulations demonstrating that cobimetinib exposure would decrease by 73% or 83% when coadministered with a moderate or strong CYP3A inducer, respectively. Guidance is not available regarding concomitant use of cobimetinib with weak CYP3A inducers.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Consider alternative therapy or start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with dabrafenib due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of dabrafenib occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Darunavir: (Major) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of darunavir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor. (Major) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of darunavir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor. (Major) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of darunavir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as perampanel, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation. Advise patients about worsened somnolence and not to drive or perform other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how deutetrabenazine affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with perampanel can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as doxepin. In addition, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) In vitro, perampanel is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4. Clinically significant interactions have been reported when doxorubicin was coadministered with inhibitors of CYP3A4, resulting in increased concentration and clinical effect of doxorubicin. Avoid coadministration of perampanel and doxorubicin if possible. If not possible, closely monitor for increased side effects of doxorubicin including myelosuppression and cardiotoxicity.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) In vitro, perampanel is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor; doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4. Clinically significant interactions have been reported when doxorubicin was coadministered with inhibitors of CYP3A4, resulting in increased concentration and clinical effect of doxorubicin. Avoid coadministration of perampanel and doxorubicin if possible. If not possible, closely monitor for increased side effects of doxorubicin including myelosuppression and cardiotoxicity.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with perampanel is necessary, and monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of dronabinol. Additive dizziness, confusion, somnolence, and other CNS effects may also occur. Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; perampanel is a weak in vitro inducer of CYP3A4. Concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as droperidol.
Efavirenz: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with efavirenz due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of efavirenz occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with efavirenz due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of efavirenz occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with efavirenz due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of efavirenz occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Elagolix: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to elagolix therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If elagolix is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to elagolix therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If elagolix is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering elbasvir; grazoprevir with perampanel. Perampanel is a mild CYP3A inducer, while both elbasvir and grazoprevir are substrates of CYP3A. Use of these drugs together may decrease the plasma concentrations of both elbasvir and grazoprevir, and could result in decreased virologic response. Conversely, concentrations of perampanel (also a CYP3A substrate) may be increased when given with grazoprevir (a weak CYP3A inhibitor).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor. (Major) Caution is warranted when elvitegravir is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of elvitegravir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is an inducer of CYP3A4. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of cobicistat. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor. (Major) Caution is warranted when elvitegravir is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for decreased concentrations of elvitegravir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Perampanel is an inducer of CYP3A4. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Encorafenib: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to encorafenib therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If encorafenib is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inducers decreased perampanel exposure by 50% to 67%.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as entacapone.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to enzalutamide therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If enzalutamide is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased perampanel exposure by 50% to 67%.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and perampanel for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with eslicarbazepine due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of eslicarbazepine occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Eslicarbazepine is a CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Perampanel may reduce the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives containing levonorgestrel. Advise women taking perampanel and a levonorgesterol-containing contraceptive to use additional non-hormonal contraception while using perampanel and for a month after discontinuation. With concomitant use, perampanel 12 mg/day decreased the Cmax and AUC of levonorgestrel by 42% and 40%, respectively. No significant effect on oral contraception exposure was noted when lower perampanel dosing regimens (4 to 8 mg/day) were used.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as eszopiclone.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking perampanel. Alcohol consumption while taking perampanel increases the risk for CNS depression and psychiatric and behavioral adverse reactions. In a study with healthy volunteers, the effect of perampanel on the ability to perform complex tasks, such as driving, was additive or supra-additive to the impairment effects of alcohol. Additionally, subjects experienced increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression and enhanced interference with vigilance and alertness.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Perampanel may reduce the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives containing norgestrel (which contains levonorgestrel as an active isomer). Advise women taking perampanel and a norgesterol-containing contraceptive to use additional non-hormonal contraception while using perampanel and for a month after discontinuation. With concomitant use, perampanel 12 mg/day decreased the Cmax and AUC of levonorgestrel by 42% and 40%, respectively. No significant effect on oral contraception exposure was noted when lower perampanel dosing regimens (4 to 8 mg/day) were used.
Etravirine: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with etravirine due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of etravirine occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Etravirine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and perampanel. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to fexinidazole therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If fexinidazole is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with fosamprenavir due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of fosamprenavir occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with fosphenytoin due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of fosphenytoin occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate. After administration, fosphenytoin is converted to phenytoin. Phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The AUC of perampanel was reduced by 43% in patients taking phenytoin compared to patients not taking enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of perampanel and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Griseofulvin: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with griseofulvin due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of griseofulvin occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Griseofulvin is a CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as haloperidol.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking perampanel. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Moderate) Caution is warranted with the coadministration of hydroxychloroquine and antiepileptic drugs, such as perampanel. Hydroxychloroquine can lower the seizure threshold; therefore, the activity of antiepileptic drugs may be impaired with concomitant use.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with perampanel, a CYP3A substrate, as perampanel toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as imipramine. In addition, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Caution and close monitoring are warranted when isavuconazonium is administered with perampanel as there is a potential for elevated perampanel concentrations and decreased concentrations of isavuconazonium. Decreased isavuconazonium concentrations may lead to a reduction of antifungal efficacy and the potential for treatment failure. Perampanel is a substrate and inducer of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4. Isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a sensitive substrate and moderate inhibitor of this enzyme.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Use of perampanel with CNS depressants, including monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), may increase CNS depression. MAOIs can also cause a variable change in seizure patterns, so careful monitoring of the patient taking perampanel for epilepsy is required.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, can prolong the half-life of perampanel and decrease perampanel metabolism. Administration of a single dose of perampanel 1 mg with ketoconazole 400 mg once daily for 8 days in healthy subjects increased perampanel half-life from 58.4 to 67.8 hours, and increased perampanel AUC by 20%. Patients taking ketoconazole and perampanel should be closely monitored for adverse effects; a perampanel dose adjustment may be necessary. Caution should also be used during concomitant use of perampanel with itraconazole, as it inhibits CYP3A4.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, can prolong the half-life of perampanel and decrease perampanel metabolism. Administration of a single dose of perampanel 1 mg with ketoconazole 400 mg once daily for 8 days in healthy subjects increased perampanel half-life from 58.4 to 67.8 hours, and increased perampanel AUC by 20%. Patients taking ketoconazole and perampanel should be closely monitored for adverse effects; a perampanel dose adjustment may be necessary.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Concurrent use of perampanel with clarithromycin may increase exposure to perampanel and increase plasma concentrations. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an enzyme responsible for perampanel metabolism. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger, anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and perampanel. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and perampanel. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and perampanel may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with perampanel should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, can prolong the half-life of perampanel and decrease perampanel metabolism. Administration of a single dose of perampanel 1 mg with ketoconazole 400 mg once daily for 8 days in healthy subjects increased perampanel half-life from 58.4 to 67.8 hours, and increased perampanel AUC by 20%. Patients taking ketoconazole and perampanel should be closely monitored for adverse effects; a perampanel dose adjustment may be necessary.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Perampanel may reduce the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives containing levonorgestrel. Advise women taking perampanel and a levonorgesterol-containing contraceptive to use additional non-hormonal contraception while using perampanel and for a month after discontinuation. With concomitant use, perampanel 12 mg/day decreased the Cmax and AUC of levonorgestrel by 42% and 40%, respectively. No significant effect on oral contraception exposure was noted when lower perampanel dosing regimens (4 to 8 mg/day) were used.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Perampanel may reduce the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives containing levonorgestrel. Advise women taking perampanel and a levonorgesterol-containing contraceptive to use additional non-hormonal contraception while using perampanel and for a month after discontinuation. With concomitant use, perampanel 12 mg/day decreased the Cmax and AUC of levonorgestrel by 42% and 40%, respectively. No significant effect on oral contraception exposure was noted when lower perampanel dosing regimens (4 to 8 mg/day) were used.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Perampanel may reduce the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives containing levonorgestrel. Advise women taking perampanel and a levonorgesterol-containing contraceptive to use additional non-hormonal contraception while using perampanel and for a month after discontinuation. With concomitant use, perampanel 12 mg/day decreased the Cmax and AUC of levonorgestrel by 42% and 40%, respectively. No significant effect on oral contraception exposure was noted when lower perampanel dosing regimens (4 to 8 mg/day) were used.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Perampanel may reduce the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives containing levonorgestrel. Advise women taking perampanel and a levonorgesterol-containing contraceptive to use additional non-hormonal contraception while using perampanel and for a month after discontinuation. With concomitant use, perampanel 12 mg/day decreased the Cmax and AUC of levonorgestrel by 42% and 40%, respectively. No significant effect on oral contraception exposure was noted when lower perampanel dosing regimens (4 to 8 mg/day) were used.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration. Perampanel may potentiate the sedative effects of lofexidine.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent use of perampanel with ritonavir may decrease ritonavir concentrations and increase perampanel concentrations. Both drugs are metabolized by CYP3A4. Ritonavir is also a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while perampanel is a weak inducer of CYP3A4. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger, anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to lorlatinib therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If lorlatinib is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration may decrease perampanel plasma concentrations.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with lumacaftor due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of lumacaftor occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with lumacaftor due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of lumacaftor occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and perampanel. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Maraviroc: (Minor) Use caution if coadministration of maraviroc with perampanel is necessary, due to a possible decrease in maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a CYP3A substrate and perampanel is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor for a decrease in efficacy with concomitant use.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Meprobamate: (Contraindicated) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as meprobamate.
Methadone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as methocarbamol.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as mirtazapine.
Mitotane: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with mitotane due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of mitotane occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Modafinil: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with modafinil due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of modafinil occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Molindone: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as molindone. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Use of perampanel with CNS depressants, including monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), may increase CNS depression. MAOIs can also cause a variable change in seizure patterns, so careful monitoring of the patient taking perampanel for epilepsy is required.
Morphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Nafcillin: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with nafcillin due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of nafcillin occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Nafcillin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of perampanel and nefazodone, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase exposure to perampanel, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Concurrent use of perampanel with nelfinavir, may increase exposure to perampanel and lead to elevated plasma concentrations. Nelfinavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an enzyme responsible for perampanel metabolism. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger, anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent use of perampanel with ritonavir may decrease ritonavir concentrations and increase perampanel concentrations. Both drugs are metabolized by CYP3A4. Ritonavir is also a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while perampanel is a weak inducer of CYP3A4. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger, anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
Norgestrel: (Major) Perampanel may reduce the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives containing norgestrel (which contains levonorgestrel as an active isomer). Advise women taking perampanel and a norgesterol-containing contraceptive to use additional non-hormonal contraception while using perampanel and for a month after discontinuation. With concomitant use, perampanel 12 mg/day decreased the Cmax and AUC of levonorgestrel by 42% and 40%, respectively. No significant effect on oral contraception exposure was noted when lower perampanel dosing regimens (4 to 8 mg/day) were used.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as nortriptyline. In addition, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as olanzapine.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as olanzapine.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as olanzapine.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of oliceridine with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with rifabutin due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of rifabutin occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Rifabutin is a CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Opicapone: (Moderate) Opicapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including perampanel, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors, such as opicapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
OXcarbazepine: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with oxcarbazepine due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of oxcarbazepine occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A substrate and oxcarbazepine is a CYP3A inducer. Oxcarbazepine has been observed to reduce the AUC of perampanel by approximately 48%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Pacritinib: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to pacritinib therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If pacritinib is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as amitriptyline. In addition, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, may also lower the seizure threshold. Monitor patients for changes in efficacy of perampanel. (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to pexidartinib therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If pexidartinib is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Use of perampanel with CNS depressants, including monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), may increase CNS depression. MAOIs can also cause a variable change in seizure patterns, so careful monitoring of the patient taking perampanel for epilepsy is required.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Patients should limit activity and not drive or operate machinery until they know how concomitant use of perampanel and CNS depressants, such as phenobarbital, affects them. Coadministration of perampanel with phenobarbital may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel with CNS depressants has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Patients should limit activity and not drive or operate machinery until they know how concomitant use of perampanel and CNS depressants, such as phenobarbital, affects them. Coadministration of perampanel with phenobarbital may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel with CNS depressants has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) During clinical trials, co-administration of topiramate and perampanel to patients led to a 20% decrease in the AUC of perampanel compared to patients not taking enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs. Topiramate is an inducer of CYP3A4, while perampanel is a substrate of this enzyme. Patients taking topiramate who begin treatment with perampanel should be closely monitored for adverse effects and receive a higher initial dose of perampanel. Addition or withdrawal of enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs may require a perampanel dose adjustment.
Phenytoin: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with phenytoin due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of phenytoin occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate. The AUC of perampanel was reduced by 43% in patients taking phenytoin compared to patients not taking enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as pimozide.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, can prolong the half-life of perampanel and decrease perampanel metabolism. Administration of a single dose of perampanel 1 mg with ketoconazole 400 mg once daily for 8 days in healthy subjects increased perampanel half-life from 58.4 to 67.8 hours, and increased perampanel AUC by 20%. Patients taking ketoconazole and perampanel should be closely monitored for adverse effects; a perampanel dose adjustment may be necessary. Caution should also be used during concomitant use of perampanel with posaconazole as this drug inhibits CYP3A4.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Use of perampanel with CNS depressants may increase CNS depression. Perampanel (particularly at high doses) has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; these effects may be additive to the concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as pramipexole.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of perampanel and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Primidone: (Moderate) Patients should limit activity and not drive or operate machinery until they know how concomitant use of perampanel and CNS depressants, such as primidone, affects them. Coadministration of perampanel with primidone may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel with CNS depressants has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as quetiapine.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as ramelteon.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to repotrectinib therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If repotrectinib is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Rifabutin: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with rifabutin due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of rifabutin occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Rifabutin is a CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
rifAMPin: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with rifampin due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of rifampin occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Rifapentine: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to rifapentine therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If rifapentine is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased perampanel exposure by 50% to 67%.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as risperidone.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent use of perampanel with ritonavir may decrease ritonavir concentrations and increase perampanel concentrations. Both drugs are metabolized by CYP3A4. Ritonavir is also a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while perampanel is a weak inducer of CYP3A4. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger, anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
Rivaroxaban: (Minor) Coadministration of rivaroxaban and perampanel may result in decreased rivaroxaban exposure and may decrease the efficacy of rivaroxaban. Perampanel is an inducer of CYP3A4, and rivaroxaban is a substrate of CYP3A4. If these drugs are administered concurrently, monitor the patient for signs of lack of efficacy of rivaroxaban.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as ropinirole.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Concurrent use of perampanel with saquinavir, may increase exposure to perampanel and lead to elevated plasma concentrations. Saquinavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an enzyme responsible for perampanel metabolism. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger, anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of selegiline and perampanel. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with perampanel. Taking these drugs together may decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate; perampanel is a weak in vitro inducer of CYP3A4.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with perampanel. Taking these drugs together may decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate; perampanel is a weak in vitro inducer of CYP3A4.
Sotorasib: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to sotorasib therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If sotorasib is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with St. John's Wort due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of St. John's Wort occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and perampanel. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Concurrent use of perampanel with tipranavir, may increase exposure to perampanel and lead to elevated plasma concentrations. Tipranavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an enzyme responsible for perampanel metabolism. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger, anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as tolcapone.
Topiramate: (Moderate) During clinical trials, co-administration of topiramate and perampanel to patients led to a 20% decrease in the AUC of perampanel compared to patients not taking enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs. Topiramate is an inducer of CYP3A4, while perampanel is a substrate of this enzyme. Patients taking topiramate who begin treatment with perampanel should be closely monitored for adverse effects and receive a higher initial dose of perampanel. Addition or withdrawal of enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs may require a perampanel dose adjustment.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with perampanel may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with perampanel to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Use of perampanel with CNS depressants, including monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), may increase CNS depression. MAOIs can also cause a variable change in seizure patterns, so careful monitoring of the patient taking perampanel for epilepsy is required.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as phenothiazines.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as trimipramine. In addition, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of the drug, including perampanel (in vitro). Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of the drug, including perampanel (in vitro). Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Concurrent use of perampanel with clarithromycin may increase exposure to perampanel and increase plasma concentrations. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an enzyme responsible for perampanel metabolism. Monitor patients for increases in adverse effects such as anger, anxiety, irritability, somnolence, dizziness, or nausea. Dose adjustment may be required.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and perampanel. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with perampanel, an inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, can prolong the half-life of perampanel and decrease perampanel metabolism. Administration of a single dose of perampanel 1 mg with ketoconazole 400 mg once daily for 8 days in healthy subjects increased perampanel half-life from 58.4 to 67.8 hours, and increased perampanel AUC by 20%. Patients taking ketoconazole and perampanel should be closely monitored for adverse effects; a perampanel dose adjustment may be necessary. Caution should also be used during concomitant use of perampanel with voriconazole, as it inhibits CYP3A4.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as zaleplon.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as zolpidem.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, asthenia, ataxia, confusion, delirium, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, emotional lability, euphoria, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, hostility, hypoesthesia, irritability, lethargy, memory impairment, paranoia, paresthesias, psychosis, vertigo
    General Information
    Serious behavioral and psychiatric adverse reactions have been observed during perampanel use, specifically hostility and aggression-related reactions. During partial onset seizure clinical trials, 12% and 20% of patients randomized to 8 mg or 12 mg/day of perampanel experienced these behaviors, respectively, compared to 6% of placebo-treated patients. Effects were dose-related, and often began during the first 6 weeks of therapy; however, new events emerged more than 37 weeks after drug initiation in some patients. Irritability was one of the most common adverse events and occurred in 4% (4 mg/day dosage) to 12% (12 mg/day dosage); anger and aggression occurred in up to 3%. Aggression, anger, or irritability led to drug discontinuation in 1% or more of patients taking perampanel 8 mg or 12 mg daily. Serious and life threatening-events including physical assault and homicidal thoughts were noted during trials; homicidal ideation or threats occurred in 0.1% of 4,368 patients who received perampanel during controlled and open-label studies, including non-epilepsy studies. Anxiety (2% to 5%), confusion (1% to 2%), euphoria (0% to 2%), and other mood alterations (2% or less) were observed. Belligerence, delusion, disorientation, emotional lability, paranoia, and agitation are also associated with perampanel therapy. Patients with and without prior neuropsychiatric history or concomitant use of medications associated with aggression and hostility experienced these effects. Psychosis (acute psychosis, hallucinations, delusions, paranoia) and delirium (confusion, disorientation, memory impairment) have been reported with postmarketing use. Counsel patients, caregivers, and families about the risk of psychiatric and behavioral reactions with perampanel. Closely monitor patients during treatment, particularly during initial dosage titration, dosage increases, and treatment with higher doses; continue monitoring for a minimum of 1 month after perampanel discontinuation. If symptoms occur, reduce the dose. If persistent severe or worsening symptoms occur, perampanel should be discontinued and the patient should be referred for psychiatric evaluation. Other neurologic effects associated with perampanel include dizziness and gait disturbances, which are dose-related. Dizziness was observed in 16% to 43% of perampanel recipients during clinical trials, and gait disturbances in 1% to 16%. Reactions such as ataxia (1% to 8%), balance disorders (0% to 5%), vertigo (3% to 47%), and other unspecified types of abnormal coordination (2% or more) were also observed. Dizziness and gait disturbance symptoms often began during dose titration, and prompted drug discontinuation in 3% of patients. Somnolence, fatigue, asthenia, and lethargy are also dose-related reactions associated with perampanel. Drowsiness occurred in 9%, 11% to 16%, and 18% of epilepsy patients who received perampanel 4 mg, 8 mg, or 12 mg daily, respectively, compared to 4% to 7% among controls. Fatigue was reported in 8% to 15% and asthenia in 1% to 2% of patients. Headache was relatively common, observed in 11% to 13% of patients. Dysarthria, also a dose-related effect, was noted among 1% to 4% of perampanel-treated patients. Disorders of the senses such as paresthesias and hypoesthesia were reported in up to 2% and 3% of patients, respectively. Other reported reactions include hypersomnia (1% to 3%) and memory impairment (0% to 2%). Since many neurological reactions to perampanel are common, patients should use caution when participating in hazardous activities requiring mental alertness; the elderly have a greater risk for many neurological reactions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hostility
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paranoia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Antiepileptic drugs such as perampanel increase the risk of suicidal ideation and behavior in patients receiving the drugs to treat epilepsy, psychiatric disorders, or other conditions (e.g., migraine, neuropathic pain). A pooled analysis of 199 placebo-controlled trials including 11 different AEDs showed that patients receiving anticonvulsants had approximately twice the risk of suicidal behavior or ideation (0.43%) as patients receiving placebo (0.24%), with an adjusted relative risk 1.8 (95% CI 1.2 to 2.7). Four suicides occurred in patients treated with AEDs compared to none among controls. The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in patients with epilepsy compared to those with other conditions. Age was not a determining factor, and risk was generally consistent among all AEDs examined. The increased risk of suicidal ideation and behavior occurred between 1 and 24 weeks after therapy initiation. However, a longer duration of therapy should not preclude the possibility of an association to the drug since most studies included in the analysis did not continue beyond 24 weeks. All patients beginning treatment with anticonvulsants or currently receiving such treatment should be closely monitored for emerging or worsening suicidal thoughts/behavior or depression. Patients and caregivers should be informed of the increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors and should be advised to immediately report the emergence or worsening of depression, the emergence of suicidal thoughts or behavior, thoughts of self-harm, or other unusual changes in mood or behavior.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, hypertriglyceridemia, hyponatremia, nausea, vomiting, weight gain
    General Information
    Various digestive and metabolic adverse effects have been associated with perampanel use. During partial-onset and primary generalized tonic-clonic seizure clinical trials, nausea was a dose-related effect, occurring in 3%, 6%, and 8% of patients treated with perampanel 4 mg, 8 mg, and 12 mg once daily. Abdominal pain (5%), vomiting (2% to 9%), and constipation (2% to 3%) were also reported. Weight gain was reported in 4% to 7% of patients; an average gain of 1.1 kg in perampanel-treated adults, compared to 0.3 kg with placebo, was observed after median treatment timeframe of 19 weeks. A total of 9.1% and 0.9% of adults gained at least 7% and 15% of their baseline body weight, respectively. Monitoring patient weight during treatment, regardless of age. Hypertriglyceridemia has occurred with perampanel use. Hyponatremia, which was observed in 2% of patients taking perampanel 12 mg daily, was another metabolic effect noted during pre-marketing clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    blurred vision, diplopia
    General Information
    Blurred vision and diplopia were associated with perampanel use during clinical trials in epilepsy patients with partial onset seizures. Blurred vision was reported in up to 4% of perampanel recipients (n = 1,098) and led to drug discontinuation in >= 1% of those taking 8 mg or 12 mg daily doses. Diplopia was noted in 1% to 3% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Falls, sometimes leading to serious head and bone injuries, occurred in patients given perampanel during placebo-controlled clinical trials, likely as a result of common neurologic effects associated with the drug, such as dizziness or gait disturbances. Falls were noted in 5% and 10% of patients randomized to perampanel 8 mg and 12 mg daily, respectively, with an overall incidence of 2% to 10% among all perampanel treated patients (n = 1,098). Elderly patients had an increased risk of falls compared to younger adults and adolescents. Specific injuries reported during perampanel use with their respective incidence rates include contusion (0% to 6%), head injuries (1% to 3%), ligament sprain (4%), limb injuries (1% to 2%), and skin lacerations (0% to 2%). Musculoskeletal events reported include arthralgia (0% to 3%), back pain (2% to 5%), musculoskeletal pain (1% to 2%), myalgia (1% to 3%), and extremity pain (0% to 3%). Peripheral edema was noted in 1% to 2% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, infection, throat irritation
    General Information
    Respiratory and infectious adverse reactions have been noted during perampanel use. Cough (1% to 4%), throat irritation or pain (2%), upper respiratory tract infection (3% to 4%), and urinary tract infection (4%) were reported during controlled trials. The relationship of perampanel to these reactions has not been specified.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      throat irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), rash (unspecified)
    General Information
    Rash (unspecified) was reported in 4% of patients receiving perampanel during clinical trials. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported with postmarketing use. DRESS may be fatal or life-threatening. Evaluate patients with signs or symptoms of DRESS immediately, and discontinue perampanel if an alternative etiology for symptoms cannot be identified. DRESS typically presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling with other organ system involvement, such as hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Eosinophilia is often present. DRESS is variable in expression, and early manifestations of hypersensitivity (e.g., fever or lymphadenopathy) may be present without rash. The first reported case of DRESS attributed to perampanel occurred in a 13-year-old female with drug-resistant epilepsy previously stabilized on lamotrigine and valproic acid over a 2 year period. Perampanel was added for breakthrough negative myoclonic seizures and titrated up to 4 mg once daily after 4 weeks. One week after the dosage increase, the patient developed a fever, cough, and lower extremity erythematous rash. Within 1 week, the patient further presented with symptoms including worsening skin lesions, lethargy, facial swelling, hypotension, leukocytosis, acute renal failure, elevated hepatic enzymes, and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Prominent lesions around the nose and lips showed no skin sloughing or bullae, with a negative Nikolsky sign (ruling out toxic epidermal necrolysis and pemphigus vulgaris). A skin punch biopsy revealed superficial perivascular and interstitial infiltrates, leading to the diagnosis of DRESS, most likely precipitated by perampanel. The patient's medical status improved significantly within 5 days of discontinuing all antiepileptic agents, neurologic function returned to baseline, and she was discharged home after a 3 week hospitalization.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Perampanel (Fycompa) is a selective, non-competitive ionotropic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist approved for the treatment of partial-onset and primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. The AMPA receptor is present in nearly all excitatory neurons. Because of perampanel's novel mechanism of action, it may be an effective adjunct medication in patients with refractory partial-onset seizures. In addition, though further research is needed, animal models have suggested AMPA receptor antagonist efficacy for status epilepticus resistant to benzodiazepines. Perampanel carries a black box warning for neuropsychiatric adverse events, which can be life-threatening; the drug is also associated with a high incidence of adverse effects that may affect balance and coordination. Perampanel has been evaluated in phase 3, randomized, placebo-controlled trials for the treatment of motor fluctuations in patients with Parkinson's disease on levodopa therapy; results demonstrated no improvements in motor function ("off" time).

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Perampanel is a non-competitive, selective antagonist of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor that is present on post-synaptic neurons within the CNS. AMPA receptors mediate fast, excitatory neurotransmission and have a critical role in seizure development and spreading. Glutamate, released from pre-synaptic neurons, binds to AMPA receptors, subsequently allowing cations to travel across the post-synaptic membrane and create brief depolarizations termed excitatory post-synaptic potentials. Electrical activity is produced by additive excitatory potentials that generate action potentials fired by the post-synaptic neuron. Although the precise mechanism of perampanel's antiepileptic effects in humans is unknown, the drug has demonstrated inhibition of calcium influx into cultured cortical neurons in a concentration dependent manner; it has been suggested that perampanel reduces neuroexcitation, but does not eliminate it. Perampanel has demonstrated no effect on kainate or NMDA receptors.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Perampanel absorption is rapid and complete after oral administration. The bioavailability of the oral suspension is comparable to the tablets under steady state; the formulations may be used interchangeably. Food does not effect the AUC (extent of absorption), but may decrease the rate of absorption. Median Tmax was 0.5 to 2.5 hours under fasting conditions. When co-administered with a high fat meal, Tmax was delayed by 1 to 3 hours, and Cmax was reduced by 11% to 40% when compared to values observed during fasting conditions. The AUC of perampanel increases in a dose-proportional manner after single and multiple doses.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    After a single dose of perampanel, the AUC of both free and protein bound drug was 50% greater in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) and 2.25-fold greater in those with moderate impairment (Child-Pugh B) compared to healthy controls. The AUC of free perampanel in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment was 1.8-fold and 3.3-fold higher, respectively, than the AUC in healthy controls. Half-life lengthened from 125 to 306 hours in those with mild hepatic impairment, and from 139 to 295 hours in those with moderate hepatic impairment. Patients with severe hepatic impairment have not been studied.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Pooled data from patients with partial-onset seizures receiving perampanel up to 12 mg/day during clinical trials indicate that the renal clearance of perampanel decreased by 27% and the AUC increased by 37% in patients with mild renal impairment (CrCl 50 to 80 mL/minute) compared to patients with normal renal function (CrCl more than 80 mL/minute). Perampanel has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment or in those undergoing hemodialysis.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    There is no significant effect of age or body weight on perampanel clearance.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Perampanel clearance in females (9 mL/minute) was 18% lower than in males (11 mL/minute) in a population pharmacokinetic analysis of patients receiving perampanel during clinical trials; however, no dosage adjustment is necessary based on gender.
  Text
  Perampanel is administered orally. Perampanel is approximately 95% bound to plasma proteins, primarily albumin and alpha 1-acid glycoprotein. Perampanel is primarily metabolized via oxidation primarily mediated by CYP3A4 and/or CYP3A5. Sequential glucuronidation occurs. Elimination occurs in the urine and feces. After a single dose, 22% and 48% of the dose was recovered in the urine and feces, respectively, mainly as a mixture of oxidative and conjugated metabolites. The half-life of perampanel is approximately 105 hours; apparent clearance is approximately 12 mL/minute.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP3A4/5, CYP1A2, CYP2B6
Oxidative metabolism of perampanel is mediated primarily by CYP3A4/5 and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 based on results of in vitro studies. Other CYP enzymes may also be involved. The concomitant use of known CYP enzyme inducers may decrease perampanel plasma concentrations by approximately 50% to 67%.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Oral suspension
Shake well before each use.
Use the provided adapter and graduated oral dosing syringe to administer the dose.
Storage: Discard any remaining suspension 90 days after bottle opening.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer at bedtime without regard to meals.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    12 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    12 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    12 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    4 to 12 years: 12 mg/day PO.
1 to 3 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  For patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, begin with 2 mg/day PO and titrate by 2 mg/day increments no more frequently than every 2 weeks based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 6 mg/day for mild impairment and 4 mg/day for moderate impairment. Use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is required in patients with mild renal impairment. Enhanced patient monitoring and slower dosage titration may be necessary in patients with moderate renal impairment. Use is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment or those undergoing hemodialysis.
