=== Elinzanetant (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5632)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Elinzanetant is an oral neurokinin 1 (NK1) and neurokinin 3 (NK3) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms (VMS) due to menopause.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 120 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): gastroesophageal reflux, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, asthenia, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, lethargy, seizures, vertigo

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of elinzanetant are known and/or...

Brand Names
  - Lynkuet

Dosage Forms
  - Lynkuet 60mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General Dosing Information
Exclude pregnancy in individuals of reproductive potential. If pregnancy is confirmed during therapy, discontinue elinzanetant treatment.
Perform baseline hepatic laboratory tests to evaluate for hepatic function and injury before initiating treatment with elinzanetant [e.g., serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST), serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and serum bilirubin (total and direct)]. Do not start elinzanetant if ALT or AST is 2 or more times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or if the total bilirubin is 2 or more times the ULN.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adult menopausal and postmenopausal females
        Dosage Description
        120 mg (two 60 mg capsules) PO once daily at bedtime at about the same time each day.
    Heading
    For the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms (hot flashes) due to menopause

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of elinzanetant are known and/or resolved. Elinzanetant can cause somnolence and other nervous system effects (including somnolence, fatigue, vertigo, dizziness, and presyncope) that may impair abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities or occupations.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Elinzanetant is not recommended for use in individuals with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) or severe (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure; individuals with Child-Pugh class C were not studied. Moderate hepatic impairment increased the exposure of elinzanetant. No dosage adjustment is required in individuals with mild (Child-Pugh class A) hepatic impairment. Evaluate liver function tests for hepatic function and injury (including ALT, AST, ALP, and total and direct serum bilirubin) prior to elinzanetant initiation. Do not start elinzanetant if the concentration of ALT or AST is equal to or exceeds 2 times the ULN or if the total bilirubin is equal to or exceeds 2 times the ULN for the evaluating laboratory. Perform follow-up evaluations of hepatic transaminase concentration monthly for the first 3 months of therapy. Advise individuals to discontinue elinzanetant and seek medical attention when symptoms suggest liver injury. Discontinue elinzanetant if transaminase concentrations are greater than 5 times the ULN, or greater than 3 times the ULN with total bilirubin concentrations greater than 2 times the ULN.
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    Use elizanetant with caution in individuals with a history of seizures or with conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Seizures and convulsions were reported during clinical trials and observed in animal studies, respectively.
    Headline
    renal failure
    General Information
    The use of elinzanetant is not recommended in people with renal failure (end-stage renal disease with eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2), with or without hemodialysis, as the effect of elinzanetant in this population has not been studied. Based on pharmacokinetic population analysis, no dosage adjustments are needed for those with mild to severe renal impairment.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Elinzanetant is contraindicated for use in pregnancy. If pregnancy occurs during treatment, discontinue elinzanetant. Based on animal studies, elinzanetant caused pregnancy loss or stillbirth but not fetal malformations when administered during pregnancy. In rat studies, oral treatment during gestation and lactation increased litter loss and stillbirths, and reduced neonatal viability within human therapeutic exposure levels. Additionally, at 16 times the human dose, pre- and post-implantation embryo loss increased and fetal weights decreased when dams were treated from 22 days before mating through early pregnancy. In rabbits, oral treatment during gestation day 7 to 19 at doses equivalent to human therapy caused significant weight loss and decreased food intake in dams. There are no data on the use of elinzanetant in pregnant individuals to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with elinzanetant. Pregnancy loss or stillbirth were observed in animal studies at clinically relevant doses. Exclude pregnancy in individuals of reproductive potential prior to treatment initiation. Perform pregnancy testing if pregnancy is suspected during treatment, and discontinue treatment if pregnancy is confirmed. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking elinzanetant and for 2 weeks after the final dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use elinzanetant with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of elinzanetant or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Elinzanetant is present in animal milk. Following administration of radiolabeled elinzanetant to lactating rats, approximately 6% of the elinzanetant dose was excreted in the milk. Principal human metabolites of elinzanetant were also detected in the plasma of pups from rat dams that were dosed once daily orally during pregnancy and lactation at 1.5 mg/kg/day or more (elinzanetant AUC below the range of human therapeutic exposure). Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If a breast-fed infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally administered drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Elinzanetant is contraindicated for use in pregnancy. If pregnancy occurs during treatment, discontinue elinzanetant. Based on animal studies, elinzanetant caused pregnancy loss or stillbirth but not fetal malformations when administered during pregnancy. In rat studies, oral treatment during gestation and lactation increased litter loss and stillbirths, and reduced neonatal viability within human therapeutic exposure levels. Additionally, at 16 times the human dose, pre- and post-implantation embryo loss increased and fetal weights decreased when dams were treated from 22 days before mating through early pregnancy. In rabbits, oral treatment during gestation day 7 to 19 at doses equivalent to human therapy caused significant weight loss and decreased food intake in dams. There are no data on the use of elinzanetant in pregnant individuals to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use elinzanetant with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of elinzanetant or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Elinzanetant is present in animal milk. Following administration of radiolabeled elinzanetant to lactating rats, approximately 6% of the elinzanetant dose was excreted in the milk. Principal human metabolites of elinzanetant were also detected in the plasma of pups from rat dams that were dosed once daily orally during pregnancy and lactation at 1.5 mg/kg/day or more (elinzanetant AUC below the range of human therapeutic exposure). Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If a breast-fed infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally administered drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. If elinzanetant is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with elinzanetant may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with elinzanetant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of elinzanetant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If elinzanetant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. If elinzanetant is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If elinzanetant is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and adagrasib due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. If elinzanetant is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If elinzanetant is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and elinzanetant due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with elinzanetant, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with aprepitant/fosaprepitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of elinzanetant. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus elinzanetant may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with elinzanetant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of elinzanetant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. If elinzanetant is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If elinzanetant is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and atazanavir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and atazanavir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Avacopan: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If elinzanetant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Berotralstat: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with berotralstat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and elinzanetant can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when elinzanetant is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping elinzanetant, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If elinzanetant is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and elinzanetant can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when elinzanetant is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping elinzanetant, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If elinzanetant is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with elinzanetant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of elinzanetant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with elinzanetant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of elinzanetant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. The exposure of carbamazepine may also be increased. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of elinzanetant, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and ceritinib due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and chloramphenicol due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with elinzanetant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of elinzanetant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If elinzanetant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with ciprofloxacin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and elinzanetant; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with elinzanetant and monitor for adverse reactions. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A; elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with elinzanetant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of elinzanetant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with elinzanetant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of elinzanetant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with elinzanetant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of elinzanetant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with elinzanetant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of elinzanetant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with elinzanetant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of elinzanetant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with elinzanetant may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of elinzanetant could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If elinzanetant is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with conivaptan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Crizotinib: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with crizotinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily and monitor for adverse effects of both drugs if concomitant use with cyclosporine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor and cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and darunavir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and darunavir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and darunavir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with diltiazem is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dronedarone: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Duvelisib: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with duvelisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of eliglustat and elinzanetant is not recommended in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and cobicistat due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Erythromycin: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with erythromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fedratinib: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with fedratinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and elinzanetant should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. If elinzanetant is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If elinzanetant is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperkalemia and reduce the finerenone dosage as appropriate based on observed changes in serum potassium values if concomitant use of finerenone and elinzanetant is required. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk for finerenone-related adverse effects, such as hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased finerenone overall exposure by 21%.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors, including elinzanetant, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
Fluconazole: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with fluconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with fluvoxamine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with fosamprenavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during elinzanetant treatment due to the risk of increased elinzanetant exposure and adverse reactions. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If elinzanetant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If elinzanetant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If elinzanetant is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and idelalisib due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Imatinib: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with imatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with isavuconazonium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and itraconazole due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Lefamulin: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with oral lefamulin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with elinzanetant as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Letermovir: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with letermovir is necessary. Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant in those receiving combination letermovir plus cyclosporine. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold, while concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and lonafarnib due to the potential for increased exposure to both drugs, which may elevate the risk of adverse effects. If administration is necessary, reduce to or maintain lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and monitor closely for adverse reactions. Resume the previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing elinzanetant. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor and lonafarnib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and ritonavir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary as concurrent use may increase mefloquine exposure and mefloquine-related adverse events. Mefloquine is a substrate of CYP3A and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. If elinzanetant is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with elinzanetant can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. If elinzanetant is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with elinzanetant can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and elinzanetant. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with elinzanetant. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased midazolam overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and mifepristone due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of elinzanetant. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and nefazodone due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and nelfinavir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with netupitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Nilotinib: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with nilotinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and ritonavir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with nirogacestat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with elinzanetant due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. If elinzanetant is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like elinzanetant can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If elinzanetant is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and elinzanetant. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate, and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and posaconazole due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with elinzanetant; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and elinzanetant with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and relacorilant due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold, while concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold, while concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and ritonavir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and saquinavir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of elinzanetant. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if elinzanetant must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. If elinzanetant is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like elinzanetant can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If elinzanetant is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and tipranavir due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of elinzanetant, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of elinzanetant, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with elinzanetant. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and tucatinib due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with elinzanetant. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and voriconazole due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Voxelotor: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with elinzanetant is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes (ALT and/or AST) equal to or more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in 0.6% of elinzanetant-treated subjects compared to placebo (0.4%) up to 12 weeks in clinical trials. Perform baseline bloodwork (including ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, and total and direct bilirubin) prior to initiation to evaluate for hepatic function and injury. Do not start therapy if serum transaminase concentration is equal to or exceeds 2 times the ULN or if the total bilirubin is equal to or exceeds 2 times the ULN. Perform follow-up evaluations of hepatic transaminase concentration 3 months after initiation of therapy. Discontinue elinzanetant immediately and seek medical attention including hepatic laboratory tests if signs or symptoms suggestive of liver injury (new onset fatigue, decreased appetite, nausea, vomiting, pruritus, jaundice, pale feces, dark urine, or abdominal pain) are experienced. Discontinue elinzanetant if transaminase elevations exceed 5 times the ULN or if transaminase elevations exceed 3 times the ULN and total bilirubin exceeds two times the ULN. Exclude alternative causes of hepatic laboratory test elevations.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastroesophageal reflux, nausea
    General Information
    In clinical trials through the first 12 weeks, commonly reported adverse reactions in the elinzanetant-treated group (2% or more and greater than in placebo) were gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and nausea. Additionally, abdominal pain (4.5%), including abdominal discomfort and lower/upper abdominal pain, and diarrhea (3.8%) were observed during clinical trials. Abdominal pain led to treatment discontinuation in 1.6% of subjects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    photosensitivity, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Photosensitivity was reported during clinical trials (0.5% vs. 0.1% placebo). Onset of reactions ranged from day 1 to 290. While discontinuation occurred in 1 subject, photosensitivity events in other subjects resolved under continued treatment with elinzanetant. Rash, including dermatitis and urticaria, was also reported in 4.2% of subjects receiving elinzanetant.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    muscle cramps
    General Information
    Muscle spasms, including muscle tightness or muscle cramps, were reported in 3.2% of subjects treated with elinzanetant during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, lethargy, seizures, vertigo
    General Information
    During clinical trials, nervous system effects occurred in 11.9% of subjects receiving elinzanetant compared to 3.5% of subjects on placebo. Headache (9.6%), fatigue (7.3%; including asthenia), dizziness (6.1%; including balance disorder, presyncope, vertigo [cental nervous system orgin and positional], and vestibular neuronitis), somnolence or drowsiness (5.1%; including lethargy) were observed in elinzanetant-treated subjects. Additionally, a seizure was reported in 1 subject with a history of seizures during clinical trials and convulsions were observed in animal studies with male and female rats. Headache (1.3%), fatigue (1.6%), and depression (1.6%) were adverse reactions that led to treatment discontinuation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Elinzanetant is an oral neurokinin 1 (NK1) and neurokinin 3 (NK3) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms (VMS) due to menopause. VMS, during menopause, are predicted to result from increased kisspeptin/neurokinin B/dynorphin (KNDy) neuron activity from estrogen withdrawal. The efficacy of elinzanetant was evaluated in 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter clinical trials. Subjects receiving elinzanetant 120 mg had statistically significant and clinically meaningful (2 or more hot flashes over 24 hours) reduction from baseline in the frequency of moderate to severe hot flashes compared to placebo at Weeks 4 and 12. Statistically significant reductions from baseline in the severity of moderate to severe VMS were also seen in elinzanetant-treated subjects at Weeks 4 and 12 compared to placebo. Headache, fatigue, gastroesophageal reflux disease, dizziness, nausea, and somnolence were commonly reported with elinzanetant use. Elinzanetant use is not recommended in individuals with moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) and severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment and is contraindicated in pregnant individuals due to the risk for pregnancy loss or stillbirth based on animal study findings. Elinzanetant was FDA-approved in October 2025.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Elinzanetant is a neurokinin 1 (NK1) and neurokinin 3 (NK3) receptor antagonist. Inhibition of Substance P and Neurokinin B through antagonism of NK1 and NK3 receptor signaling on kisspeptin/neurokinin B/dynorphin (KNDy) neurons can modulate neuronal activity in thermoregulation associated with hot flashes. Elinzanetant has higher affinity for human NK1 receptors (pKi values of 8.7 to 10.2) and NK3 receptors (pKi values of 8 to 8.8) than for human neurokinin 2 (NK2) receptors (pKi values of approximately 6).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The Cmax and AUC of elinzanetant increased in a greater than dose-proportional manner (20% to 50%) over the dose range from 40 to 160 mg once daily (0.33 to 1.33 times the highest recommended dose). Steady state plasma concentrations were reached in 5 to 14 days after daily dosing, with a Tmax of 1 hour (1 to 2.5 hours). The absolute bioavailability of elinzanetant is 52% following oral administration. Accumulation is less than 2-fold at the approved recommended dosage. No clinically significant differences in elinzanetant pharmacokinetics were observed following administration with a high-calorie, high-fat meal containing approximately 1000 calories (500 to 600 calories from fat, 250 calories from carbohydrates, and 150 calories from protein).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In subjects with Child-Pugh Class A (mild) hepatic impairment, the mean Cmax and AUC increased 1.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively. In subjects with Child-Pugh Class B (moderate) hepatic impairment, the mean Cmax and AUC increased by 2.3-fold. Elinzanetant has not been studied in subjects with Child-Pugh Class C (severe) hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In subjects with mild (eGFR 60 to less than 90 mL/minute/1.73 m2) renal impairment, the mean Cmax and AUC increased 1.9-fold and 1.6-fold, respectively. In subjects with moderate (eGFR 30 to less than 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2) renal impairment, the mean Cmax and AUC increased 1.8-fold and 1.7-fold, respectively. In subjects with severe (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2) renal impairment, the mean Cmax and AUC increased 1.2-fold and 1.1-fold, respectively. Population pharmacokinetic analysis of the clinical trial data indicate similar exposure of elinzanetant in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment compared to subjects with normal renal function. Elinzanetant has not been studied in subjects with end-stage renal disease (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    There have not been sufficient numbers of geriatric women involved in clinical trials utilizing elinzanetant to determine whether those over 65 years of age differ from younger women in their response to elinzanetant.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of elinzanetant were observed based on race.
  Text
  Elinzanetant is administered orally. The plasma protein binding of elinzanetant is 99.7% with a mean Vd of 137 L after intravenous administration. The blood-to-plasma ratio is between 0.6 and 0.7. Elinzanetant is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 to yield 3 major active metabolites: M18/21, M27, and M30/34. These metabolites have similar potency for the human neurokinin 1 (NK1) and neurokinin 3 (NK3) receptors as compared to elinzanetant. The ratio of these metabolites to parent drug in plasma is approximately 0.39. Following a single oral dose of radiolabeled elinzanetant in healthy subjects, approximately 90% of the dose was recovered in feces (50% unchanged) and less than 1% in the urine. The elimination half-life was approximately 45 hours in women with vasomotor symptoms. The clearance of elinzanetant after a single intravenous dose was 8.77 L/hour.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: BCRP, BSEP, CYP3A4, P-gp
Elinzanetant is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Elinzanetant and its metabolites M18/21, M27, and M30/M34 inhibited CYP3A4, P-gp, BCRP, and BSEP in vitro at clinically relevant concentrations.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    May be taken with or without food
Administer with water and swallow capsules whole. Do not cut, crush, or chew capsules.
Take at bedtime about the same time each day. Missed dose: If a dose is missed at bedtime, take the next dose as scheduled on the following day. Do not take 2 doses on the same day to make up for the missed dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    120 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    120 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Use is not recommended in people with moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) or severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment due to risk of increased exposure. Individuals with severe hepatic impairment have not been studied. No dosage adjustment is required in people with mild (Child-Pugh Class A) hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 15 to 90 mL/minute/1.73 m2: No dosage adjustment is needed.
eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Not recommended.
