=== Angiotensin II — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5005)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Angiotensin II is a renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) peptide hormone vasoconstrictor indicated for hypotension in adults with septic or other distributive shock.

Routes: intravenous; Common adult doses: 80 ng/kg/minute continuous IV infusion for first 3 hours then 40 ng/kg/minute continuous IV infusion.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy The published data on angiotensin II use in human pregnancy are not sufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes. Animal reproduction...

ANGIOTENSIN II

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

GIAPREZA

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of hypotension in patients with septic shock or other distributive shock

Intravenous dosage
Adults


20 ng/kg/minute continuous IV infusion. Titrate by up to 15 ng/kg/minute every 5 minutes as needed to achieve or maintain target blood pressure. Do not exceed 80 ng/kg/minute during the first 3 hours then 40 ng/kg/minute thereafter. Doses as low as 1.25 ng/kg/minute may be used. Once underlying shock has improved, down titrate by up to 15 ng/kg/minute every 5 to 15 minutes based on blood pressure. Guidelines do not recommend angiotensin II as a first line vasopressor in septic shock but acknowledge it may have a role as an adjunctive vasopressor therapy.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


The published data on angiotensin II use in human pregnancy are not sufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. Septic or other distributive shock is a medical emergency. Delayed treatment in pregnant individuals with hypotension associated with shock is likely to increase the risk of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality.


breast-feeding


Use angiotensin II with caution during breast-feeding. It is unknown if angiotensin II is present in human milk. There are no data available on the effects of angiotensin II on the breastfed child or on milk production.


Pregnancy And Lactation


The published data on angiotensin II use in human pregnancy are not sufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. Septic or other distributive shock is a medical emergency. Delayed treatment in pregnant individuals with hypotension associated with shock is likely to increase the risk of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Captopril: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Cardiac glycosides: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients receiving cardiac glycosides and vasopressors concurrently due to the increased risk of arrhythmia.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects. Coadministration with other vasopressors may have the potential for serious cardiac adverse effects such as hypertensive crisis and cardiac arrhythmias.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients receiving cardiac glycosides and vasopressors concurrently due to the increased risk of arrhythmia.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of dopamine and other vasopressors, such as angiotensin II, due to the risk for severe hypertension.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Iodixanol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Iohexol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Iomeprol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) The intravascular injection of a contrast medium should never be made after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects. Serious neurologic sequelae, including permanent paralysis, have been reported after cerebral arteriography, selective spinal arteriography, and arteriography of vessels supplying the spinal cord.
Iopamidol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Iopromide: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Ioversol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Losartan: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Phentermine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using racepinephrine inhalation are advised to avoid other non-prescription products containing sympathomimetics since additive adverse effects on the cardiovascular and nervous system are possible, some which may be undesirable. Side effects such as nausea, tremor, nervousness, difficulty with sleep, and increased heart rate or blood pressure may be additive. Patients should avoid use of non-prescription decongestants, such as phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine, while using racepinephrine inhalations. Patients should avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients that are reported or claimed to have a stimulant or weight-loss effect, such as ephedrine and ephedra, Ma huang, and phenylpropanolamine.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

During the ATHOS-3 clinical trial, peripheral ischemia was reported in 4.3% of patients receiving angiotensin II compared to 2.5% of those receiving placebo.

thrombocytopenia, thrombosis


Thromboembolic events, including arterial and venous thrombotic events, were reported in 12.9% of subjects receiving angiotensin II (n = 163) compared to 5.1% of subjects receiving placebo (n = 158) in a clinical trial. Additionally, deep vein thrombosis was reported in 4.3% of angiotensin II-treated subjects compared to 0% of subjects receiving placebo. Use concurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis with angiotensin II therapy. Thrombocytopenia was also reported in 9.8% of angiotensin II-treated subjects compared to 7% of subjects receiving placebo.


sinus tachycardia


Sinus tachycardia was reported in 8.6% of patients receiving angiotensin II and in 5.7% of patients receiving placebo during the ATHOS-3 clinical trial.


infection


During the ATHOS-3 clinical trial, fungal infection was reported in 6.1% of patients receiving angiotensin II compared to 1.3% of those receiving placebo.


delirium


Delirium was reported in 5.5% of patients receiving angiotensin II and in 0.6% of patients receiving placebo during the ATHOS-3 clinical trial.


hyperglycemia, metabolic acidosis


Metabolic adverse reactions reported with angiotensin II during the ATHOS-3 clinical trial included metabolic acidosis (5.5% vs. 0.6% placebo) and hyperglycemia (4.3% vs. 2.5% placebo).


Description

Angiotensin II is a renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) peptide hormone vasoconstrictor indicated for hypotension in adults with septic or other distributive shock. Guidelines do not recommend angiotensin II as a first line vasopressor in septic shock but acknowledge it may have a role as an adjunctive vasopressor therapy. In the ATHOS-3 trial, mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) increased from baseline by 10 mmHg or more or to 75 mmHg or more without an increase in the dosage of baseline vasopressor therapy in more patients receiving angiotensin II than those receiving placebo (69.9% vs. 23.4%, p less than 0.001). A higher incidence of arterial and venous thrombosis and thromboembolic events was reported among patients receiving angiotensin II compared to placebo; concurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis is necessary with angiotensin II therapy.

Mechanism Of Action

Angiotensin II is a peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase blood pressure. Angiotensin II raises blood pressure by vasoconstriction and increased aldosterone release. The direct action of angiotensin II on the vessel wall is mediated by binding to G-protein-coupled angiotensin II receptor type 1 on vascular smooth muscle cells, which stimulates calcium and calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation of myosin and causes smooth muscle contraction.

Pharmacokinetics

Angiotensin II is administered intravenously. It is metabolized by aminopeptidase A and angiotensin converting enzyme 2 to angiotensin III and angiotensin-(1-7), respectively, in plasma, erythrocytes, and many of the major organs. Angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1) mediated activity of angiotensin III is approximately 40% of angiotensin II. Aldosterone synthesis activity of angiotensin III is similar to that of angiotensin II. Angiotensin-(1-7) exerts opposite effects of angiotensin II on AT1 receptors and causes vasodilation.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and/or drug transporters: none

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

Serum concentrations of angiotensin II are similar at baseline and hour 3 after infusion. After 3 hours, the serum concentration of angiotensin I, which is the angiotensin II precursor peptide, is reduced by approximately 40%. The plasma half-life of angiotensin II administered intravenously is less than 1 minute. Among the 70% of angiotensin II-treated patients who reached the target mean arterial pressure (MAP) at hour 3 in the ATHOS-3 trial, the median time to reach target MAP was approximately 5 minutes.

Hepatic Impairment

The pharmacokinetics of angiotensin II are not expected to be influenced by hepatic impairment; clearance is not dependent on hepatic function.

Renal Impairment

The pharmacokinetics of angiotensin II are not expected to be influenced by renal impairment; clearance is not dependent on renal function.

Geriatric

There were no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics between patients 65 years and older and those younger than 65 years.

Gender Differences

There were no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics between male and female patients.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Use concurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis during angiotensin II therapy.


Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Angiotensin II is a clear, aqueous solution.


Intravenous Administration

Dilution
Dilute in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection prior to use.
Withdraw 1 mL (2.5 mg) and add to 500 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection for a final concentration of 5,000 ng/mL.
For the fluid restricted patient, withdraw 1 mL (2.5 mg) and add to 250 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or withdraw 2 mL (5 mg) and add to 500 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection for a final concentration of 10,000 ng/mL.
Storage: Diluted solution may be stored at room temperature or under refrigeration for 24 hours.
 
Continuous IV Infusion
Administer through a central vein whenever possible; prolonged administration through a peripheral vein may result in extravasation and skin necrosis. If peripheral administration is necessary, use a 20-gauge or larger catheter and assess the site frequently. If extravasation occurs, administer 5 to 10 mg of phentolamine directly to the site.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

80 ng/kg/minute continuous IV infusion for first 3 hours then 40 ng/kg/minute continuous IV infusion.

Geriatric

80 ng/kg/minute continuous IV infusion for first 3 hours then 40 ng/kg/minute continuous IV infusion.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Giapreza 0.5mg/mL Solution for Infusion

GIAPREZA 2.5mg/mL Solution for Infusion

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier