=== Avacopan — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5362)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Avacopan is a complement 5a receptor (C5aR) antagonist indicated for the treatment of severe active anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis [granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)] in combination with standard therapy including...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 60 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, fatigue, headache, hypertension, paresthesias, rash, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hepatitis b exacerbation, hepatotoxicity

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. infection Avoid use of avacopan in individuals with an active, serious infection, including localized infections. Consider the risks and benefits of avacopan before drug initiation in...

AVACOPAN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

TAVNEOS

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody associated vasculitis, including granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis as remission induction therapy

Oral dosage
Adults


30 mg PO twice daily for 6 to 12 months. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

infection


Avoid use of avacopan in individuals with an active, serious infection, including localized infections. Consider the risks and benefits of avacopan before drug initiation in individuals with chronic or recurrent infection, those who have been exposed to tuberculosis, those with a history of serious or an opportunistic infection, those who have resided or traveled in areas of endemic tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, or those with underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection. Serious infections, including fatal and life-threatening infections, have been reported with avacopan therapy.


hepatic disease


Avacopan is not recommended for individuals with active, untreated, and/or uncontrolled chronic hepatic disease (e.g., chronic active hepatitis B, untreated hepatitis C, uncontrolled autoimmune hepatitis, and cirrhosis). Serious cases of hepatic injury have been observed in individuals receiving avacopan. Evaluate liver function tests (LFTs) at baseline, every 2 weeks for the first month of avacopan treatment, monthly for the next 5 months, and then as clinically indicated thereafter. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation, including life-threatening hepatitis B, has been observed with avacopan therapy. Evaluate individuals at risk for hepatitis B reactivation by measuring HBsAg and anti-HBc prior to initiating treatment with avacopan. In individuals who demonstrate evidence of prior hepatitis B infection, consult with a health care provider with expertise in managing hepatitis B regarding monitoring recommendations and whether HBV antiviral therapy is needed before and/or during avacopan treatment. If avacopan is used in an individual with evidence of current or prior HBV infection, monitor for clinical and laboratory signs of hepatitis or HBV reactivation during and for 6 months after avacopan therapy.


pregnancy


There are no adequate and well-controlled studies with avacopan use during human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of avacopan to pregnant hamsters and rabbits during the period of organogenesis produced no evidence of fetal harm with exposures up to approximately 5 and 0.6 times, respectively, the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 30 mg twice daily (on an area under the curve [AUC] basis). Avacopan caused an increase in the number of abortions in rabbits at an exposure of 0.6 times the MRHD. An exposure of 5 times the MRHD in pregnant hamsters resulted in an increase in the incidence of a skeletal variation, described as supernumerary ribs.


breast-feeding


Use avacopan with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of avacopan in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Avacopan was detected in the plasma of undosed hamster pups breastfed from drug-treated dams. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate and well-controlled studies with avacopan use during human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of avacopan to pregnant hamsters and rabbits during the period of organogenesis produced no evidence of fetal harm with exposures up to approximately 5 and 0.6 times, respectively, the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 30 mg twice daily (on an area under the curve [AUC] basis). Avacopan caused an increase in the number of abortions in rabbits at an exposure of 0.6 times the MRHD. An exposure of 5 times the MRHD in pregnant hamsters resulted in an increase in the incidence of a skeletal variation, described as supernumerary ribs.


Interactions

Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with avacopan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Abemaciclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with avacopan. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the AUC of acalabrutinib was increased by approximately 2- to 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. If avacopan is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with avacopan may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with avacopan may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of avacopan could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If avacopan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. If avacopan is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If avacopan is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of adagrasib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with avacopan due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. If avacopan is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If avacopan is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of alfuzosin-related adverse effects including hypotension and QT prolongation if coadministered with avacopan. Increased alfuzosin exposure may occur. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the alfuzosin AUC by 1.3-fold.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and avacopan due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with avacopan, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in amiodarone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiodarone exposure. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avacopan and aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to substantially increased exposure of aprepitant. Fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant; therefore, a similar interaction is likely. Aprepitant is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Administration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the aprepitant AUC by 2-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of avacopan. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus avacopan may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with avacopan may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of avacopan could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. If avacopan is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If avacopan is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold. (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Avanafil: (Major) Do not exceed an avanafil dose of 50 mg once every 24 hours in patients receiving avacopan. Coadministration may increase avanafil exposure. Avanafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Administration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the avanafil AUC by 3-fold and prolonged the half-life to approximately 8 hours.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with avacopan due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and avacopan due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If avacopan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and bexarotene due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and bosentan due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase bosentan exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and bosentan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bosutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bosutinib and avacopan as bosutinib plasma exposure may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of bosutinib adverse events (e.g., myelosuppression, GI toxicity). Bosutinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The Cmax and AUC values of bosutinib were increased 1.5-fold and 2-fold, respectively, when bosutinib 500 mg PO was administered with a single dose of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of avacopan with brexpiprazole is necessary, as the systemic exposure of brexpiprazole may be increased resulting in an increase in brexpiprazole-related adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of brexpiprazole to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose if brexpiprazole and avacopan are coadministered with a moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP2D6 or if the patient is a poor metabolizer of CYP2D6. If avacopan is discontinued, adjust the brexpiprazole dosage to its original level. Brexpiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the exposure of brexpiprazole compared to use of brexpiprazole alone.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with avacopan if possible due to increased plasma exposure of brigatinib; an increase in brigatinib-related adverse reactions may occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of brigatinib by approximately 40% without breaking tablets (i.e., from 180 mg to 120 mg; from 120 mg to 90 mg; from 90 mg to 60 mg). Brigatinib is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 40%.
Bromocriptine: (Major) Reduce the bromocriptine dosage during concomitant use with avacopan; bromocriptine dosage reduction recommendations vary by indication and dosage form. For the treatment of type 2 diabetes with micronized bromocriptine quick-release tablets, do not exceed a bromocriptine dosage of 1.6 mg once daily. For all other indications and dosage forms, reduce the initial bromocriptine dosage to 1.25 mg once daily and reduce the maximum bromocriptine dosage to: 3.75 mg once daily for hyperprolactinemia-associated dysfunction, 2.5 mg once daily for prolactin-secreting adenomas, 25 mg once daily for acromegaly, and 12.5 mg twice daily for idiopathic or postencephalitic parkinsonism. Concomitant use may increase bromocriptine exposure. Bromocriptine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased bromocriptine exposure by up to 3.7-fold.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with avacopan due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with avacopan due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of oral budesonide with avacopan due to increased budesonide exposure; use caution with inhaled budesonide, as systemic exposure may increase. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and avacopan can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when avacopan is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping avacopan, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If avacopan is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and avacopan is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and avacopan can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when avacopan is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping avacopan, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If avacopan is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and avacopan is a CYP3A inhibitor.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in buspirone-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary; the effect may be more pronounced if the patient has been titrated to a stable dose of buspirone and avacopan is added or removed from therapy. Buspirone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased buspirone exposure by 3.4 to 6-fold and was accompanied by increased buspirone-related adverse reactions.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with avacopan may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of avacopan could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with avacopan may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of avacopan could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with avacopan may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Capivasertib: (Major) Reduce the dose of capivasertib to 320 mg PO twice daily for 4 days followed by 3 days off if coadministration with avacopan is necessary; monitor for adverse reactions. Concomitant use may increase capivasertib exposure which may increase the risk for capivasertib-related adverse effects. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of capivasertib by up to 1.5-fold.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and carbamazepine due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase carbamazepine concentrations and the risk of adverse reactions. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Cariprazine: (Major) A cariprazine dosage reduction may be required during concomitant use with avacopan. Cariprazine dosage modification recommendations vary by indication, previous exposure to cariprazine, and age. When initiating cariprazine in adults receiving avacopan, reduce the cariprazine starting dose to 0.75 mg PO once daily; in adults with schizophrenia or bipolar mania, the cariprazine dose may be increased to 1.5 mg PO once daily, if needed, based on clinical response. Avoid initiating cariprazine in pediatric patients receiving avacopan. When adding avacopan to a stable dose of cariprazine, reduce the cariprazine dosage: from 1.5 mg or 3 mg once daily to 0.75 mg once daily, from 4.5 or 6 mg once daily to 1.5 mg once daily. Concomitant use increases cariprazine exposure and the risk for cariprazine-related adverse effects. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased cariprazine overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of avacopan, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and cenobamate due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of ceritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of chloramphenicol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with avacopan may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of avacopan could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If avacopan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cilostazol: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with avacopan and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and avacopan; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for increased sedation and respiratory depression if clonazepam is coadministered with avacopan; adjust the dose of clonazepam if necessary. The systemic exposure of clonazepam may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Clonazepam is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with avacopan and monitor for adverse reactions. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid using cobimetinib and avacopan together for more than 14 days due to the risk for cobimetinib toxicity. For short-term coadministration, defined as 14 days or less of combination therapy, reduce the dose of cobimetinib to 20 mg once daily for patients normally taking 60 mg per day; consider alternative therapy for patients already taking a reduced dose of cobimetinib (40 or 20 mg per day). After discontinuation of avacopan, resume cobimetinib 60 mg per day. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Simulations have demonstrated that a short course of cobimetinib 20 mg once daily taken with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor produces similar concentrations to cobimetinib 60 mg per day alone.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with avacopan may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of avacopan could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with avacopan may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of avacopan could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with avacopan may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of avacopan could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with avacopan may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of avacopan could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with avacopan may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of avacopan could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with avacopan may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of avacopan could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If avacopan is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and avacopan due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce a dose of 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg twice daily or 0.6 mg once daily; reduce a dose of 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once daily. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 1.2 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 1.2 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased colchicine overall exposure by 1.4- to 1.9-fold.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of avacopan with medroxyprogesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of medroxyprogesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Medroxyprogesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via CYP3A; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in crizotinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary; crizotinib exposure may increase. Crizotinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and dabrafenib due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 200 mg once daily if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Daridorexant: (Major) Limit the daridorexant dose to 25 mg if coadministered with avacopan. Concomitant use may increase daridorexant exposure and the risk for daridorexant-related adverse effects. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased daridorexant overall exposure 2.4-fold.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with avacopan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold. (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold. (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and darunavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Deflazacort: (Major) Decrease deflazacort dose to one third of the recommended dosage when coadministered with avacopan. Concurrent use may significantly increase concentrations of 21-desDFZ, the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in an increased risk of toxicity. Deflazacort is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and for quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may result in increased plasma concentrations of quinidine. Quinidine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Dihydroergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and avacopan. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate if coadministration of diltiazem with avacopan is necessary. Concurrent use may result in elevated diltiazem concentrations. Diltiazem is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with avacopan is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with avacopan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with avacopan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with avacopan may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with avacopan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and avacopan due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure which may increase the risk for dordaviprone-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with avacopan due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of CYP3A inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with avacopan due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of CYP3A inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence) of dronabinol if coadministered with avacopan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dronedarone during coadministration of avacopan as concurrent use may increase the exposure of dronedarone. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of avacopan with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity if duvelisib is coadministered with avacopan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of duvelisib, increasing the risk of toxicity. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and efavirenz due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and efavirenz due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and efavirenz due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elacestrant and avacopan due to the risk of increased elacestrant exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased elacestrant overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and elagolix due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and elagolix due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with avacopan. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with avacopan; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) If avacopan and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor to every other day in the morning when coadministered with avacopan; omit the ivacaftor evening dose and administer in the morning every other day alternating with elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor (i.e., recommended dose of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor on day 1 in the morning and recommended dose of ivacaftor on day 2 in the morning). Coadministration may increase elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. Elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 2.9-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase elexacaftor and tezacaftor exposure by 2.3-fold and 2.1-fold, respectively.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of eliglustat with avacopan in intermediate or poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (IMs or PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs), coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Concurrent use is contraindicated in EMs and IMs also receiving a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. Concurrent use may result in unexpectedly high plasma concentrations of eliglustat, further increasing the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., cardiac arrhythmias).
Elinzanetant: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with avacopan may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with avacopan may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and encorafenib due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure and efficacy and risk for increased encorafenib exposure and adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an encorafenib dosage reduction is required: reduce a daily dose of 450 mg to 225 mg, reduce a daily dose of 300 mg to 150 mg, reduce the daily dose to 75 mg for all other dosages. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased encorafenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with avacopan due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with avacopan due to increased entrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for entrectinib-related adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary in adults and pediatric patients 2 years and older, reduce the dose of entrectinib (600 mg/day or 400 mg/day to 200 mg/day; 300 mg/day to 100 mg/day; 200 mg/day to 50 mg/day) and limit coadministration to 14 days or less. For pediatric patients with a starting dose less than 200 mg, avoid coadministration. Entrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of entrectinib by 3-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and enzalutamide due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Eplerenone: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with avacopan in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving avacopan, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating avacopan and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Ergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and avacopan. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and avacopan. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and eslicarbazepine due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Etrasimod: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and avacopan in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and etravirine due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase etravirine exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and etravirine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Simvastatin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use under fed conditions increased simvastatin overall exposure by 3.53-fold.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and avacopan should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and half-life by approximately 2.5-fold and 2-fold, respectively.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. If avacopan is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If avacopan is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or avacopan; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 248%.
Flibanserin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of flibanserin and avacopan is contraindicated due to increased flibanserin exposure, which can result in severe hypotension and syncope. If initiating flibanserin following use of avacopan, start flibanserin at least 2 weeks after the last dose of avacopan. If initiating avacopan following flibanserin use, start avacopan at least 2 days after the last dose of flibanserin. Flibanserin is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased fosamprenavir toxicity if coadministered with avacopan. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of fosamprenavir. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin and fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Gepirone: (Major) Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for gepirone-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase gepirone exposure. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for gepotidacin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary; avoid use if gepotidacin is being used to treat gonorrhea. Concomitant use may increase gepotidacin exposure and the risk for gepotidacin-related adverse effects. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase gepotidacin overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
guanFACINE: (Major) Decrease the dose of extended-release guanfacine by 50% if coadministration with avacopan is necessary; if avacopan is discontinued, the dose of extended-release guanfacine may be increased to the recommended level. Monitor patients closely for adverse effects including hypotension, drowsiness, lethargy, and bradycardia. Recommendations for immediate-release guanfacine are not available. Guanfacine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If avacopan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If avacopan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If avacopan is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and avacopan due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Ibrutinib: (Major) If ibrutinib is coadministered with avacopan, reduce the initial ibrutinib dosage to 280 mg/day PO in patients receiving ibrutinib for a B-cell malignancy. Resume ibrutinib at the previous dose if avacopan is discontinued. No initial ibrutinib dosage reduction is necessary in patients receiving ibrutinib for chronic graft-versus-host disease. Monitor patients for ibrutinib toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, bleeding, infection); modify the ibrutinib dosage as recommended if toxicity occurs. Ibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When ibrutinib was administered with multiple doses of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor, the AUC value of ibrutinib was increased by 3-fold.
Idelalisib: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of idelalisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of ifosfamide if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Ifosfamide is metabolized by CYP3A to its active alkylating metabolites and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of these active metabolites, decreasing the effectiveness of ifosfamide treatment.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and avacopan. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of itraconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Ivabradine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivabradine and avacopan as increased concentrations of ivabradine are possible, which may result in bradycardia exacerbation and conduction disturbances. Ivabradine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the AUC of ivabradine by 2- to 3-fold.
Ivacaftor: (Major) If avacopan and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with avacopan due to increased plasma concentrations of ivosidenib, which increases the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. Ivosidenib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the ivosidenib single-dose AUC to 173% of control based on physiologically-based pharmacokinetic modeling. Multiple doses of the moderate CYP3A inhibitor are predicted to increase the ivosidenib steady-state AUC to 190% of control.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in larotrectinib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase larotrectinib exposure. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase larotrectinib exposure by 2.7-fold.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for lefamulin-related adverse effects if oral lefamulin is administered with avacopan as concurrent use may increase exposure from lefamulin tablets; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and avacopan as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the lemborexant overall exposure by up to 4.5-fold.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with avacopan is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with avacopan is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with avacopan is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of avacopan and lomitapide is contraindicated due to increased lomitapide exposure. If treatment with avacopan is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors with lomitapide has not been studied, a significant increase in lomitapide exposure is likely during concurrent use based on the 27-fold increase in exposure observed with coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lonafarnib and avacopan is contraindicated due to the risk for increased lonafarnib exposure and lonafarnib-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase avacopan exposure and adverse effects. Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use is necessary. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor and avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and combination lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and combination lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%. (Major) If avacopan and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and combination lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and combination lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Lumateperone: (Major) Reduce the dose of lumateperone to 21 mg once daily if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase lumateperone exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased lumateperone exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Lurasidone: (Major) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone is 20 mg daily (maximum, 80 mg daily) if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Reduce the lurasidone dose to half of its original dose level if avacopan is added to existing lurasidone therapy. Lurasidone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased lurasidone exposure by 116%.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lurbinectedin and avacopan due to the risk of increased lurbinectedin exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of lurbinectedin by 50%. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the overall exposure of lurbinectedin by up to 2.3-fold.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Maraviroc is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors may result in increased maraviroc concentrations.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting avacopan therapy. Avoid initiation of avacopan in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable avacopan therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with avacopan. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of avacopan with medroxyprogesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of medroxyprogesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Medroxyprogesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via CYP3A; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with avacopan is necessary as concurrent use may increase mefloquine exposure and mefloquine-related adverse events. Mefloquine is a substrate of CYP3A and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. If avacopan is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with avacopan can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. If avacopan is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with avacopan can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Methylergonovine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with avacopan. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of midazolam with avacopan. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a CYP3A inhibitor.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of chronic mifepristone therapy is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with avacopan and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and mitotane due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and avacopan; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and nafcillin due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with avacopan. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Naloxegol: (Major) Avoid concomitant administration of naloxegol and avacopan due to the potential for increased naloxegol exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, decrease the naloxegol dosage to 12.5 mg once daily and monitor for adverse reactions including opioid withdrawal symptoms such as hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, irritability, and yawning. Naloxegol is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased naloxegol exposure by approximately 3.4-fold.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of nab-paclitaxel with avacopan is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A inhibitors.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of avacopan. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of nefazodone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of nelfinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and nelfinavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Careful monitoring and dose adjustment of nifedipine may be necessary if administered with avacopan as nifedipine exposure and adverse effects may be increased. Consider initiating nifedipine at the lowest dose. Nifedipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and avacopan due to the risk for increased nirogacestat exposure which may increase the risk for nirogacestat-related adverse effects. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase nirogacestat overall exposure by 2.73- to 3.18-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with avacopan due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with avacopan due to the risk of increased olaparib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of olaparib to 150 mg twice daily; the original dose may be resumed 3 to 5 elimination half-lives after avacopan is discontinued. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; concomitant use may increase olaparib exposure. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the olaparib AUC by 121%.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and avacopan is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and avacopan may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If avacopan is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and avacopan. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and rifabutin due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Oveporexton: (Major) Decrease the oveporexton dosage to 0.5 mg twice daily if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase oveporexton exposure and the risk for oveporexton-related adverse reactions. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased oveporexton overall exposure by 2.9-fold.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in oxybutynin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Oxybutynin is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with moderate CYP3A inhibitors may alter the mean pharmacokinetic parameters of oxybutynin, although the clinical relevance of these potential interactions is unknown.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. If avacopan is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors like avacopan can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If avacopan is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of paclitaxel with avacopan is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A inhibitors.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. The exposure of pacritinib may also be increased. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and avacopan due to the risk for increased palovarotene exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the palovarotene dose by half. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased palovarotene overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and avacopan due to the risk of increased pemigatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pemigatinib to 9 mg PO once daily if original dose was 13.5 mg per day and to 4.5 mg PO once daily if original dose was 9 mg per day. If avacopan is discontinued, resume the original pemigatinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of avacopan. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase pemigatinib exposure by approximately 50% to 80%.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and pexidartinib. Concomitant use may decrease avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy and increase pexidartinib exposure and the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pexidartinib dosage as follows: 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg twice daily; 250 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg once daily. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and pexidartinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pexidartinib overall exposure by 67%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and avacopan. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate, and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Pivekimab sunirine: (Moderate) Monitor for pivekimab sunirine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to FGN849, the cytotoxic component of pivekimab sunirine. FGN849 is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of posaconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 1.7-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and avacopan due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce a dose of 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg twice daily or 0.6 mg once daily; reduce a dose of 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once daily. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 1.2 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 1.2 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased colchicine overall exposure by 1.4- to 1.9-fold.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with avacopan; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and avacopan with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and for quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may result in increased plasma concentrations of quinidine. Quinidine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Monitor for quinine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase quinine exposure. Quinine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Major) Limit the dose of ranolazine to 500 mg twice daily if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ranolazine. Ranolazine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased plasma levels of ranolazine by 50% to 130%.
Relacorilant: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of relacorilant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and avacopan due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) A dose reduction of repaglinide and increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Repaglinide is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy and increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of ribociclib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of ribociclib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and rifabutin due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and rifampin due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and rifapentine due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Coadministration of rilpivirine with avacopan may result in increased plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, leading to an increase in rilpivirine-related adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and avacopan due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with avacopan; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Roflumilast: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in roflumilast-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase roflumilast exposure. Roflumilast is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of roflumilast by 70%.
Saquinavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of saquinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and saquinavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Decrease the sebetralstat dose by 50% if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sebetralstat exposure and the risk for sebetralstat-related adverse effects. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sebetralstat overall exposure by 2-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Seladelpar: (Minor) Monitor patients who are known CYP2C9 poor metabolizers more frequently for an increase in seladelpar-related adverse effects if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use in these patients may increase seladelpar exposure. Seladelpar is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and avacopan is moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib and avacopan due to the risk of increased selpercatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions, including QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the dose of selpercatinib (160 mg twice daily to 120 mg twice daily; 120 mg twice daily to 80 mg twice daily; 80 mg twice daily to 40 mg twice daily; 40 mg three times daily to 40 mg once daily). Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, such as additional electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase selpercatinib exposure by 1.66-fold to 1.99-fold.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and avacopan due to the risk of increased selumetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of selumetinib to 20 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 25 mg/m2 twice daily and 15 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 20 mg/m2 twice daily. If avacopan is discontinued, resume the original selumetinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of avacopan. Selumetinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase selumetinib exposure by 41%.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sildenafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary; consider a starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil when prescribed for erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of sildenafil by 182%. Predictions based on a pharmacokinetic model suggest that drug-drug interactions with CYP3A inhibitors will be less for sildenafil injection than those observed after oral sildenafil administration.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Silodosin is a substrate of CYP3A and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effect of moderate CYP3A inhibitors has not been evaluated; however, plasma concentrations of silodosin may increase based on its interaction with strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Simvastatin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use under fed conditions increased simvastatin overall exposure by 3.53-fold.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and avacopan may increase siponimod exposure. If the patient is also receiving a drug regimen containing a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor, use of siponimod is not recommended due to a significant increase in siponimod exposure. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A dual inhibitor led to a 2-fold increase in the AUC of siponimod.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of avacopan. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sirolimus overall exposure 1.6-fold.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and avacopan as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, administer avacopan for less than 14 days and monitor for an increased risk of sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and sotorasib due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and St. John's Wort due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if avacopan must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. If avacopan is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor like avacopan can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If avacopan is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Suvorexant: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with avacopan. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Suzetrigine: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of avacopan. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tadalafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tadalafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific interactions have not been studied, moderate CYP3A inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and avacopan due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of avacopan with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tazemetostat with avacopan due to the risk for increased tazemetostat exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease current tazemetostat daily dosage by 50% (e.g., decrease 800 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO twice daily; 600 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO for first dose and 200 mg PO for second dose; 400 mg PO twice daily to 200 mg PO twice daily). Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased tazemetostat overall exposure by 3.1-fold.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with avacopan; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) If avacopan and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased bleeding if ticagrelor is coadministered with avacopan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ticagrelor. Ticagrelor is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A; avacopan is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Tinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tinidazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of tinidazole. Tinidazole is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of tipranavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and tipranavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Tolvaptan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avacopan when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with avacopan. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of avacopan, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of avacopan, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of verapamil with avacopan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of verapamil. Verapamil is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tretinoin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tretinoin exposure. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with avacopan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of tucatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with avacopan. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with avacopan; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of avacopan; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg every other day. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg every other day. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 3.9- and 5.1-fold, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of avacopan; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg every other day. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg every other day. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 3.9- and 5.1-fold, respectively.
Vardenafil: (Major) Do not use vardenafil orally disintegrating tablets with avacopan due to increased vardenafil exposure; do not exceed a single dose of 5 mg per 24-hour period of vardenafil oral tablets. Vardenafil is primarily metabolized by CYP3A; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of vardenafil by 4-fold.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with avacopan due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of avacopan. Venetoclax is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of verapamil with avacopan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of verapamil. Verapamil is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
vinBLAStine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinblastine-related adverse reactions, including myelosuppression, constipation, and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Vinblastine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Enhanced vinblastine toxicity was reported with coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Reduce the voclosporin dosage to 15.8 mg PO in the morning and 7.9 mg PO in the evening if coadministered with avacopan. Concomitant use may increase voclosporin exposure and the risk of voclosporin-related adverse effects such as nephrotoxicity, hypertension, and QT prolongation. Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase voclosporin exposure by 3-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of voriconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs and risk for adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor and voriconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased voriconazole exposure by 79%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with avacopan is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Decrease the zanubrutinib dose to 80 mg PO twice daily if coadministered with avacopan. Coadministration may result in increased zanubrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Further decrease the zanubrutinib dose as recommended if adverse reactions occur. After discontinuation of avacopan, resume the previous dose of zanubrutinib. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The zanubrutinib AUC increased 62% to 88% when coadministered with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and avacopan due to the risk for increased zidesamtinib exposure which may increase the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ziftomenib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.


Adverse Reaction
abdominal pain, diarrhea, dizziness, fatigue, headache, hypertension, nausea, paresthesias, rash, vomiting


The most commonly reported adverse reactions reported with avacopan treatment in the phase 3 trial vs. prednisone alone were nausea (23.5% of the avacopan group vs. 20.7% of the prednisone group), headache (20.5% vs. 14%), hypertension (18.1% vs. 17.7%), diarrhea (15.1% vs. 14%), vomiting (15.1% vs. 12.8%), rash (11.4% vs. 7.9%), fatigue (10.2% vs. 9.1%), upper abdominal pain (6.6% vs. 6.1%), dizziness (6.6% vs. 6.1%), and paresthesias (5.4% vs. 4.3%).


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hepatitis B exacerbation, hepatotoxicity


Serious cases of hepatotoxicity have been observed in individuals receiving avacopan. During controlled trials, the avacopan treatment group had a higher incidence of elevated hepatic enzymes and hepatobiliary adverse events, including serious and life-threatening events. In the phase 3 trial, 13.3% of subjects in the avacopan group experienced hepatobiliary adverse reactions and liver enzyme abnormalities compared to 11.6% of subjects in the prednisone group. Serious hepatic-related adverse events were reported in 9 subjects (5.4%) in the avacopan group and 6 subjects (3.7%) in the prednisone group. Study medication was paused or permanently discontinued secondary to hepatic-related adverse reactions in 9 subjects (5.4%) in the avacopan group and 5 subjects (3%) in the prednisone group. In addition, 4.2% of subjects in the avacopan group (vs. 1.2% of subjects in the prednisone group) discontinued treatment due to hepatic-related adverse reactions, including hepatobiliary adverse events and liver enzyme abnormalities. The most frequent adverse reaction that led to drug discontinuation by more than 1 subject and more frequently reported in subjects treated with avacopan was abnormal hepatic function (1.8%). A serious hepatic-related adverse reaction was also reported in a single subject enrolled in the phase 2 studies. Drug-induced liver injury, including fatal cases, has been reported with avacopan in postmarketing; some cases involved vanishing bile duct syndrome. Evaluate liver function tests (LFTs) at baseline, every 2 weeks for the first month of avacopan treatment, monthly for the next 5 months, and then as clinically indicated thereafter. If an individual receiving avacopan presents with an elevation in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) of more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), alkaline phosphatase more than 2 times the ULN, or evidence of symptomatic cholestasis, such as jaundice or pruritus, discontinue avacopan, evaluate promptly, and consider alternative treatment. If liver test abnormalities or symptoms of liver injury do not improve, refer individuals to a hepatologist for further evaluation. Advise individuals to contact a health care provider immediately if they develop any signs or symptoms of liver injury, such as jaundice, dark urine, light-colored stools, pain on the upper right side of the abdomen, swelling in the stomach or abdomen, nausea, vomiting, feeling more tired than usual, unusual bleeding or bruising, or unusual itching. Additionally, hepatitis B exacerbation or reactivation, including life-threatening hepatitis B, has been observed with avacopan. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation is defined as an abrupt increase in HBV replication, manifesting as a rapid increase in serum HBV DNA concentrations or detection of HBsAg, in an individual who was previously HBsAg negative and anti-HBc positive. HBV reactivation is often followed by hepatitis (i.e., increase in transaminase concentrations); in severe cases, increase in bilirubin concentrations, hepatic failure, and death can occur. In individuals who develop HBV reactivation, immediately discontinue avacopan and any concomitant therapy associated with HBV reactivation, and initiate appropriate treatment. There is insufficient data on the safety of resuming avacopan in individuals who develop HBV reactivation. Discuss resumption of avacopan treatment in individuals whose HBV reactivation resolves with health care providers with expertise in HBV management.


angioedema


Angioedema was reported in 2 avacopan patients (1.2%) during clinical trials, including one serious event requiring hospitalization. If angioedema occurs, immediately discontinue avacopan, provide appropriate treatment, and monitor for airway compromise. Do not resume avacopan therapy unless another cause for the angioedema has been established. Patients should be educated on the signs and symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction and to seek immediate medical care if these symptoms develop.


infection


Serious infections, including fatal and life-threatening infections, have been reported in patients receiving avacopan. Serious infections and serious opportunistic infections occurred in 13.3% and 3.6% of avacopan patients, respectively, compared to 15.2% and 6.7% of prednisone patients, respectively during a phase 3 clinical trial. The most common serious infections reported were pneumonia (4.8% in the avacopan group vs. 3.7% in the prednisone group) and urinary tract infection (1.8% vs. 1.2%). There were 2 deaths (1.2%) in the avacopan group due worsening vasculitis and pneumonia and 4 deaths (2.4%) in the prednisone group. Closely monitor for signs and symptoms of infection during and after avacopan treatment. Interrupt avacopan therapy if a patient develops a serious or opportunistic infection. If a patient develops a new infection, promptly complete diagnostic testing appropriate for an immunocompromised patient; initiate appropriate antimicrobial therapy and closely monitor. Interrupt avacopan treatment if the patient does not respond to antimicrobial therapy. Avacopan may be resumed once the infection is controlled.


renal failure


Renal failure (acute kidney injury) occurred in 1.8% of avacopan patients and 0.6% of prednisone patients. Elevated blood creatinine and elevated creatine phosphokinase were reported in 6% and 3.6% of avacopan patients, respectively, compared to 4.9% and 0.6% of prednisone patients, respectively. One avacopan patient discontinued treatment due to increased creatine phosphokinase.


Description

Avacopan is a complement 5a receptor (C5aR) antagonist indicated for the treatment of severe active anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis [granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)] in combination with standard therapy including glucocorticoids. Avacopan does not eliminate glucocorticoid use. Avacopan is associated with hepatotoxicity, hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation, and other serious infections; liver function test monitoring is required during avacopan treatment as well as routine monitoring for HBV or other infections. Avacopan was FDA-approved in October 2021.

Mechanism Of Action

Avacopan is a complement 5a receptor (C5aR) antagonist that inhibits the interaction between C5aR and the anaphylatoxin C5a. Activation of the alternative complement pathway is believed to play an important role in the pathogenesis of ANCA-associated vasculitis through terminal C5a production. Inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha, stimulate neutrophils to release C5a. C5a primes and activates neutrophils. C5a also activates endothelial cells leading to cell retraction and increasing vascular permeability. When C5a acts on the C5a receptor (C5aR), it becomes a potent neutrophil chemoattractant and agonist, increasing neutrophil adhesion, inducing neutrophil degranulation, and producing reactive oxygen intermediates. In addition, activation of C5aR slows neutrophils' ability to transverse small blood vessels, particularly in the presence of ANCA, by decreasing neutrophil deformability. Though avacopan is known to inhibit C5a-mediated neutrophil activation and migration, the precise mechanism by which avacopan exerts a therapeutic effect in patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis has not been definitively established.

Pharmacokinetics

Avacopan is administered orally. Avacopan and its active metabolite, M1, are 99.9% bound to plasma proteins, such as albumin and alpha1-acid glycoprotein. The estimated volume of distribution (Vd) of avacopan is 345 L. The cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 enzyme is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of avacopan, as well as, the formation and clearance of M1, a mono-hydroxylated product of avacopan and primary circulating metabolite. M1 has approximately the same inhibitory action as avacopan on the complement 5a receptor (C5aR) and accounts for about 12% of the total drug-related materials in the plasma. Following oral administration of radiolabeled avacopan, approximately 77% of the dose was recovered in the feces and 10% in the urine. In addition, 7% and less than 0.1% of the radiolabeled dose was excreted as unchanged avacopan in the feces and urine, respectively. Following administration of a single 30 mg avacopan dose with food to healthy subjects, the mean elimination half-lives of avacopan and M1 are 97.6 hours and 55.6 hours, respectively. The estimated rate of total body clearance (CL/F) of avacopan is 16.3 L/hour.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
The major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of avacopan, as well as the formation and metabolism of the active metabolite, M1, is CYP3A4. M1 is also a substrate of P-gp. Adjust avacopan dosage when avacopan is coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with itraconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a 2.19-fold and 1.19-fold increase in the AUC of avacopan and M1, respectively. Avoid coadministration of strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers with avacopan. Coadminstration of avacopan and rifampin, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, resulted in a 93% reduction in the AUC and a significant reduction in Cmax for both avacopan and M1. Avacopan is a CYP3A4 inhibitor; closely monitor patients for adverse reactions and consider dose reduction of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (NTI) when coadministered with avacopan. In vitro studies demonstrated avacopan induction and time-dependent inhibition of CYP3A4; M1 appears to have a low potential to induce CYP3A4, CYP1A2, and CYP2B6, but may inhibit CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. When coadministered with midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, the AUC of midazolam increased 1.81-fold and the Cmax by 1.55. The AUC and Cmax of celecoxib, a sensitive CYP2C9 substrate, increased by 1.15- and 1.64-fold, respectively, when coadministered with avacopan.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Following administration avacopan 30 mg PO twice daily to ANCA-associated vasculitis patients, the mean steady-state 12 hour AUC was 3,466+/- 1,921 x ng/mL and the Cmax was 349 +/- 169 ng/mL. Steady-state plasma levels are reached by 13 weeks and the accumulation is approximately 4-fold. Oral administration of avacopan 30 mg capsule with a high-fat, high-calorie meal increases the AUC and Cmax by approximately 72% and 8%, respectively, and delays Tmax by approximately 4 hours (from 2 hours to 6 hours). The manufacturer states to administer the medication with food.

Hepatic Impairment

In patients with mild (Child-Pugh A) and moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment, the mean avacopan AUC increased by 12% and 12%, respectively and the Cmax decreased by 13% and 17%, respectively, compared to patients with normal hepatic function. In patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment, the mean M1 AUC increased by 11% and 18%, respectively, and Cmax decreased by 5% and 16%, respectively, compared to patients with normal hepatic function. The changes in avacopan and M1 plasma exposures seen with mild and moderate hepatic impairment are not considered to be clinical relevant. Avacopan has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C).

Renal Impairment

Renal function (eGFR 14 to 170 mL/minute/1.73 m2 at baseline) was not shown to have a clinically significant effect on avacopan or the M1 metabolite plasma exposure.

Geriatric

Age (18 to 83 years) was not shown to have a clinically significant effect on avacopan or the M1 metabolite plasma exposure.

Gender Differences

Gender (31% female in clinical trials) was not shown to have a clinically significant effect on avacopan or the M1 metabolite plasma exposure.

Ethnic Differences

Race/ethnicity (White, Asian, Black) was not shown to have a clinically significant effect on avacopan or the M1 metabolite plasma exposure.

Obesity

Body weight (40.3 to 174 kg) was not shown to have a clinically significant effect on avacopan or the M1 metabolite plasma exposure.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Administer with food.
Capsules should be swallowed whole. Do not crush, chew, or open capsules.
Missed dose: Instruct the patient to skip the missed dose and take the next regular dose at the usual time.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

60 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

60 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

TAVNEOS 10mg Capsule

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B): No dosage adjustments are needed.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C), including cirrhosis: Avacopan has not been studied and is not recommended for use in these patients.
 
Hepatic dosage adjustments due to LFT elevations during therapy:
Elevation in ALT or AST to greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN): Promptly evaluate and pause avacopan therapy as clinically indicated.
Elevation in ALT or AST to greater than 5 times ULN, or if transaminases are more than 3 times ULN with bilirubin elevation more than 2 times the ULN: Discontinue therapy until avacopan-induced liver injury is ruled out.


Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment. Avacopan has not been studied in patients receiving dialysis.

© 2026 Elsevier