=== Orlistat (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 770)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Orlistat is a gastrointestinal lipase inhibitor.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 360 mg/day PO (Xenical, Rx-only), 180 mg/day PO (Alli, OTC use).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): fecal incontinence, fecal urgency, increased defecation, steatorrhea, anxiety, back pain, depression, dizziness, edema, fatigue, headache, infection, menstrual irregularity, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, rash (unspecified), vaginitis, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, bullous rash, maculopapular rash, pruritus, purpura, urticaria, vasculitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Orlistat should not be used in patients who have demonstrated a hypersensitivity reaction to any of the active or inactive ingredients. Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions have been reported (see Adverse Reactions).

Brand Names
  - alli
  - Xenical

Dosage Forms
  - alli 60mg Capsule Refill Pack
  - alli 60mg Capsule Starter Pack
  - Orlistat 120mg Oral capsule
  - Xenical 120mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (120 mg capsules)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        120 mg PO 3 times daily with each main meal containing fat. When used under optimal conditions, orlistat can reduce BMI and weight, and reduces the risk for weight regain in chronic use.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        120 mg PO 3 times daily with each main meal containing fat. When used under optimal conditions, orlistat can reduce BMI and weight, and reduces the risk for weight regain in chronic use; however, in pediatric individuals, adherence at meal (e.g., school days) may be problematic. Pharmacotherapy is usually reserved for pediatric individuals with a BMI at the 95th percentile or more or meeting the adult BMI recommendations for use. Reserve pharmacotherapy for overweight children (BMI 85th to 94th percentile) for those with significant, severe comorbidities who have not responded to lifestyle modification.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (60 mg capsules, OTC)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        60 mg PO 3 times daily with each main meal containing fat. Max: 180 mg/day. When used under optimal conditions, orlistat can reduce BMI and weight, and reduces the risk for weight regain in chronic use.
    Heading
    For the treatment of overweight individuals or obesity to assist with weight loss and for chronic weight management, in conjunction with a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Orlistat should not be used in patients who have demonstrated a hypersensitivity reaction to any of the active or inactive ingredients. Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions have been reported (see Adverse Reactions).
 
Cholecystokinin stimulates contraction of the gallbladder after its liberation from the upper gastrointestinal mucosa, which is dependent upon the presence of free fatty acids in the intestinal lumen. Postprandial plasma concentrations of cholecystokinin decreased after multiple doses of orlistat in 2 of 4 studies. Although no decrease in gallbladder contraction was demonstrated in normal-weight healthy subjects during a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study following a single dose of orlistat , the long-term effects on gallstone formation have not been determined. Overall, an increased risk of cholelithiasis has been associated with rapid and substantial weight loss. In a study investigating the use of orlistat in preventing type 2 diabetes, the rates of cholelithiasis were 2.9% (47/1649) for patients randomized to orlistat and 1.8% (30/1655) for patients randomized to placebo. The increased risk of cholelithiasis was not seen in orlistat trials not evaluating the prevention of type 2 diabetes. Orlistat is contraindicated for use in individuals with cholestasis, as may be present in cases of gallbladder disease.
 
In August 2009, the FDA announced its review of new safety data concerning reports of liver-related adverse events associated with the use of prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) orlistat. Between 1999 and October 2008, the FDA’s Adverse Events Reporting System received a total of 32 reports of serious liver injury. Among the 32 reports, 30 cases occurred outside of the United States, 27 cases required hospitalization secondary to liver injury, and 6 cases resulted in liver failure. The most commonly reported adverse events described in all cases were jaundice, weakness, and abdominal pain. In April 2009, the CDER Drug Safety Oversight Board discussed this issue, and subsequently the FDA also reviewed data on suspected cases of liver injury submitted by the manufacturers of orlistat. According to manufacturer labeling, very rare cases of bullous eruption, increased transaminases and alkaline phosphatase, and hepatitis (including serious cases) have been reported with prescription orlistat use. The FDA’s analysis of the 32 cases and well as manufacturer data is ongoing. No definite association between liver injury and orlistat has been established. At this time, the FDA does not advise any changes in the prescription or OTC use of orlistat. Patients and consumers currently taking orlistat should continue to do so as directed by their prescribing health care professional and/or in accordance with product labeling. Nonetheless, health care professionals should advise patients to immediately report any symptoms possibly associated with the development of liver injury or hepatic disease. Symptoms may include weakness, fatigue, fever, jaundice, brown urine, abdominal pain, nausea/vomiting, light-colored stools, itching, and/or loss of appetite. Clinicians and consumers are encouraged to submit reports through the FDA’s Adverse Event Reporting System.
 
Orlistat has been shown to decrease nutrient and vitamin absorption; therefore, orlistat is contraindicated for use in patients with chronic malabsorption syndrome. Because orlistat can interfere with the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins, all patients should take a daily multivitamin that contains vitamins A, D, E, K, and beta-carotene; the supplement should be taken at least 2 hours before or after orlistat (see Drug Interactions).
 
Data from an orlistat and cyclosporine drug interaction study indicate a reduction in cyclosporine plasma concentrations when the drugs are coadministered (see Drug Interactions). In patients whom cyclosporine concentrations are being measured, more frequent monitoring should be considered.
 
Organic causes of obesity, such as hypothyroidism, should be ruled out prior to prescribing orlistat.
 
Since orlistat can produce weight loss, there is a potential for abuse by certain patient populations, including those with anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa. These patients should not use orlistat.
 
Increased levels of urinary oxalate may occur following treatment with orlistat. Use caution in patients with a history of calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis or hyperoxaluria.
 
Reports of decreased prothrombin, increased INR, and unbalanced anticoagulant therapy resulting in change of hemostatic parameters have been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and anticoagulants (see Drug Interactions).
 
Orlistat has been classified pregnancy category B. No data are available on the use of orlistat during human pregnancy; however, animal studies at doses up to 800 mg/kg/day of orlistat show no teratogenicity or embryotoxicity. Theoretically, orlistat appears to present a very low risk, if any, to the embryo or fetus due to minimal systemic bioavailability. However, because maternal deficiency of fat soluble vitamins may result in adverse fetal effects, pregnant women who are taking orlistat should be encouraged to take daily multivitamins as orlistat may cause a deficiency of these vitamins (vitamins A, D, E, K). Finally, if orlistat is used in pregnancy, healthcare professionals are encouraged to call the toll free number (800—670—6126) for information about enrolling the patient in the Motherisk study.
 
The minimal systemic bioavailability of orlistat suggests that the drug is not expressed in breast milk; however, it is not known, with certainty, if orlistat is secreted into human milk. Overall, the drug characteristics suggest that is does not represent a significant risk to the infant and the benefits of breast-feeding outweigh any risk this drug might pose to the baby.
 
Use caution in pediatric administration, as the safety and efficacy of orlistat has not been evaluated in children < 12 years of age. According to the manufacturer, use in obese 12—16 year old adolescents is supported by studies in adults and additional data from a 54-week safety and efficacy study conducted in obese adolescents.
 
There were inadequate numbers of patients 65 years of age and older included in clinical trials to determine patient response. Therefore, use with caution in the elderly population.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Organic causes of obesity, such as hypothyroidism, should be ruled out prior to prescribing orlistat, and should be treated as per clinical standards of care.
    Headline
    malabsorption syndrome
    General Information
    Orlistat is contraindicated for use in patients with chronic malabsorption syndrome.
    Headline
    cholestasis, gallbladder disease, pancreatitis
    General Information
    Orlistat is contraindicated for use in individuals with cholestasis; individuals with a history of gallbladder disease should consult a healthcare provider before use. Substantial weight loss can increase the risk of cholelithiasis or gallbladder disease. In a clinical trial of orlistat, the rates of cholelithiasis as an adverse event were 2.9% (47/1649) for individuals randomized to orlistat and 1.8% (30/1655) for individuals randomized to placebo. The long-term effects on gallstone formation have not been determined; orlistat use does not appear to influence gallbladder motility. According to the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and American College of Endocrinology (AACE/ACE) Obesity Clinical Practice Guidelines, close monitoring for cholelithiasis is recommended in individuals undergoing weight loss therapy, regardless of modality. Effective preventative measures for obese individuals at risk for cholelithiasis include a slower rate of weight loss, increasing/including some dietary fat in the diet (assuming the individual has been on a very low-calorie diet containing little or no fat), or administration of ursodeoxycholic acid. The AACE/ACE Obesity Guidelines also recommend monitoring for pancreatitis due to a proven association between pancreatitis and obesity and reports of pancreatitis occurring in individuals receiving orlistat. The drug should be withheld if pancreatitis occurs or the individual has a previous history of pancreatitis.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    The American Association of Clinical Endocrinology obesity guideline states orlistat should be avoided in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (i.e., Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. There have been rare reports of severe liver injury in people taking orlistat.
    Headline
    nephrolithiasis, renal disease
    General Information
    Monitor renal function when prescribing orlistat to individuals at risk for renal impairment or renal failure, and nonprescription use should be approached with caution in any patient with a history of renal disease or nephrolithiasis (kidney stones). Use with caution in individuals with a history of hyperoxaluria or calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis. Some individuals may develop increased levels of urinary oxalate following treatment with orlistat, and cases of calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis, acute renal injury, and oxalate nephropathy with renal failure have been reported. The FDA has indicated that the renal risks exist at both prescription and nonprescription doses.  Guidelines from the American Association of Clinical Endocrinology (AACE) do not recommend orlistat for use in individuals with a history or risk factors for oxalate nephropathy. Individuals with severe renal disease or impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) should be monitored closely for oxalate nephropathy if orlistat is used.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Weight loss may affect glycemic control in individuals with diabetes mellitus. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medication (e.g., sulfonylureas) or insulin may be required in some individuals. Individuals with diabetes should be advised to continue to routinely monitor blood glucose and report any changes in blood glucose control to their healthcare provider.
    Headline
    anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa
    General Information
    Use orlistat with caution in individuals with an eating disorder, such as anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa. As with any weight-loss agent, the potential exists for abuse of orlistat in people with eating disorders.
    Headline
    children, infants
    General Information
    The safety and efficacy of orlistat have not been evaluated in children less than 12 years of age; do not give to infants. Because orlistat may reduce the absorption of certain nutrients essential for proper growth and development, use in children under 12 years of age has not been advised. Use of orlistat in adolescents 12 years and older should be in conjunction with a healthcare professional's approval and prescription. Monitor weight and growth, and, ensure the use of a properly selected multivitamin supplement daily. Nonprescription use is not advised in pediatric patients as the nonprescription product has been approved only for use in overweight adults. In pediatric patients 12 years and older, pharmacotherapy is usually reserved for pediatric patients with a BMI at the 95th percentile or more or meeting the adult BMI recommendations for use. Reserve medication therapy for overweight children (BMI 85th to 94th percentile) in those with significant, severe comorbidities who have not responded to lifestyle modification. Orlistat can reduce BMI and weight and reduces the risk for weight regain in chronic use; however, in pediatric patients, adherence at meals (e.g., school days, etc.) and side effects may be problematic.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Orlistat is contraindicated during pregnancy. Weight loss provides no expected benefit during pregnancy and may cause fetal harm. Minimum weight gain, rather than weight loss, is recommended for all pregnant patients, including those who are overweight or obese, because some weight gain is physiologically required during pregnancy. In animal studies, no embryotoxicity or teratogenicity was observed in rats or rabbits exposed to orlistat at doses up to 23 and 47 times the daily human dose, respectively, based on body surface area.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with orlistat. Orlistat is contraindicated in pregnancy. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinology (AACE) recommends effective contraception during treatment.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use orlistat with caution during breast-feeding. Data are not available regarding the presence of orlistat in human milk, effects on the breastfed infant, or effects on milk production. However, clinically significant exposure through human milk is unlikely because orlistat has poor systemic absorption, high protein binding, and a large molecular weight. It is unknown whether orlistat-related reductions in absorption of fat-soluble vitamins or dietary fat affect the quality or quantity of human milk. If orlistat is used during breast-feeding, monitor the nutritional status of the lactating patient and ensure daily supplementation with a multivitamin containing vitamins A, D, E, and K.   According to the American Association of Clinical Endocrinology (AACE) clinical guidance, the use of medications for the treatment of obesity is not recommended in individuals who are breast-feeding.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Orlistat is contraindicated during pregnancy. Weight loss provides no expected benefit during pregnancy and may cause fetal harm. Minimum weight gain, rather than weight loss, is recommended for all pregnant patients, including those who are overweight or obese, because some weight gain is physiologically required during pregnancy. In animal studies, no embryotoxicity or teratogenicity was observed in rats or rabbits exposed to orlistat at doses up to 23 and 47 times the daily human dose, respectively, based on body surface area.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use orlistat with caution during breast-feeding. Data are not available regarding the presence of orlistat in human milk, effects on the breastfed infant, or effects on milk production. However, clinically significant exposure through human milk is unlikely because orlistat has poor systemic absorption, high protein binding, and a large molecular weight. It is unknown whether orlistat-related reductions in absorption of fat-soluble vitamins or dietary fat affect the quality or quantity of human milk. If orlistat is used during breast-feeding, monitor the nutritional status of the lactating patient and ensure daily supplementation with a multivitamin containing vitamins A, D, E, and K.   According to the American Association of Clinical Endocrinology (AACE) clinical guidance, the use of medications for the treatment of obesity is not recommended in individuals who are breast-feeding.

Interactions
Abacavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Acarbose: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Acitretin: (Moderate) Due the effect of orlistat on fat absorption and the lower serum levels of fat-soluble vitamins noted during clinical trials, the bioavailability of acitretin may be decreased. Close monitoring of patients receiving acitretin with orlistat is recommended.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamins be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Alogliptin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in amiodarone efficacy during concomitant use of amiodarone and orlistat. Concomitant use may decrease amiodarone exposure. In a pharmacokinetic study of healthy volunteers, administration of orlistat 120 mg three times daily with a single dose of 1,200 mg amiodarone on day 4 resulted in a 23% to 27% reduction in the systemic exposure to amiodarone and its metabolite desethylamiodarone. The effect of initiating treatment with orlistat in patients stable on amiodarone therapy has not been studied.
Antiretrovirals (oral): (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Bexagliflozin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Bexarotene: (Moderate) Due the effect of orlistat on fat absorption and the lower serum levels of fat-soluble vitamins noted during clinical trials, the bioavailability of orally administered retinoids, such as bexarotene may also be decreased.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Cabotegravir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Calcifediol: (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins absorption during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D analogs may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D analogs along with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamin analogs be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Calcitriol: (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins absorption during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D analogs may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D analogs along with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamin analogs be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Administer vitamin E at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption. Orlistat has been shown to inhibit the absorption of a vitamin E acetate supplement by 60%. (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamins be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamins be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Canagliflozin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Cod Liver Oil: (Moderate) Due to orlistat's mechanism of action, the potential exists for the malabsorption of drugs and dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to take a multivitamin supplement once per day that contains fat soluble vitamins A, D, E, K and beta-carotene. The manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamin supplements be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption. (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamins be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Cranberry, Vaccinium macrocarpon Ait.: (Moderate) Administer vitamin E at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption. Orlistat has been shown to inhibit the absorption of a vitamin E acetate supplement by 60%.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral cyclosporine and orlistat. Orlistat interferes with cyclosporine oral absorption which may reduce cyclosporine exposure and efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, a cyclosporine dosage increase may be required. Additionally, administering oral cyclosporine at least 3 hours after orlistat may further reduce the impact of this interaction. Simultaneous oral coadministration has been observed to reduce cyclosporine overall exposure by 31% compared to 17% when oral cyclosporine was administered 3 hours after orlistat.
Dapagliflozin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Doravirine: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins absorption during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D analogs may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D analogs along with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamin analogs be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Dulaglutide: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Empagliflozin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Emtricitabine: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Ertugliflozin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Exenatide: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Administer vitamin E at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption. Orlistat has been shown to inhibit the absorption of a vitamin E acetate supplement by 60%.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Glimepiride: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
glipiZIDE: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
glyBURIDE: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Incretin Mimetics: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin Aspart: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin Degludec: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated. (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin Detemir: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin Glargine: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated. (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin Glulisine: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin Icodec: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin Lispro: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Insulins: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
ISOtretinoin: (Moderate) The bioavailability of orally administered retinoids may be decreased during coadministration with isotretinoin. In patients receiving orally-administered retinoids along with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamin analogues be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced lamotrigine efficacy during concomitant use with orlistat. Orlistat may interfere with oral lamotrigine absorption and reduce lamotrigine concentrations. Convulsions have been observed in patients receiving lamotrigine for seizure management who are also on orlistat.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after a dose of orlistat. Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of thyroid hormones by binding and delaying or preventing oral absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Monitor TSH while orlistat is used concurrently. Hypothyroidism has been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine postmarketing.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after a dose of orlistat. Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of thyroid hormones by binding and delaying or preventing oral absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Monitor TSH while orlistat is used concurrently. Hypothyroidism has been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine postmarketing.
Linagliptin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after a dose of orlistat. Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of thyroid hormones by binding and delaying or preventing oral absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Monitor TSH while orlistat is used concurrently. Hypothyroidism has been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine postmarketing.
Liraglutide: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Lixisenatide: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Meglitinides: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
metFORMIN: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Miglitol: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Nateglinide: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Orforglipron: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Paricalcitol: (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins absorption during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D analogs may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D analogs along with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamin analogs be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Phentermine: (Moderate) The safety and efficacy of coadministration of phentermine with other products intended for weight loss has not been established.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) The safety and efficacy of coadministration of phentermine with other products intended for weight loss has not been established.
Phytonadione, Vitamin K1: (Moderate) Several drugs can interfere with the oral bioavailability of vitamin K including orlistat. In patients receiving orlistat routinely for a prolonged period of time (i.e., more than 2 weeks), vitamin K intake may need to be increased.
Pioglitazone: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Pramlintide: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of pramlintide or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Pravastatin: (Moderate) Serum concentrations of pravastatin increased by approximately 30% when administered with orlistat in a parallel study of 24 normal-weight, mildly hypercholesterolemic subjects. Orlistat produced additive lipid-lowering effects when used concomittantly with pravastatin. However, another study failed to show any changes in pravastatin pharmacokinetics when coadministered with orlistat. Use caution and monitor patients carefully if using these drugs together.
Propafenone: (Major) Orlistat may limit the fraction of propafenone available for absorption. In post-marketing reports, abrupt cessation of orlistat in patients stabilized on propafenone therapy has resulted in severe adverse events including convulsions, AV block and acute circulatory failure.
Raltegravir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Regular Insulin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of insulins or other medicines for diabetes may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Repaglinide: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
sAXagliptin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Semaglutide: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
SITagliptin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Sotagliflozin: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Sulfonylureas: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Thiazolidinediones: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Oral thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after a dose of orlistat. Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of thyroid hormones by binding and delaying or preventing oral absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Monitor TSH while orlistat is used concurrently. Hypothyroidism has been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine postmarketing.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.
Tirzepatide: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Triheptanoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of triheptanoin with orlistat. Coadministration with a pancreatic lipase inhibitor, such as orlistat, may reduce exposure to the triheptanoin metabolite, heptanoate, and reduce the efficacy of triheptanoin.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced valproic acid efficacy during concomitant use with orlistat. Orlistat may interfere with oral valproic acid absorption and reduce valproic acid concentrations. Convulsions have been observed in patients receiving antiepileptic therapy who are also on orlistat.
Vitamin A: (Moderate) Due to orlistat's mechanism of action, the potential exists for the malabsorption of drugs and dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to take a multivitamin supplement once per day that contains fat soluble vitamins A, D, E, K and beta-carotene. The manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamin supplements be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Vitamin D analogs: (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins absorption during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D analogs may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D analogs along with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamin analogs be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) Administer vitamin E at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption. Orlistat has been shown to inhibit the absorption of a vitamin E acetate supplement by 60%. (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamins be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamins be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Vitamin E: (Moderate) Administer vitamin E at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption. Orlistat has been shown to inhibit the absorption of a vitamin E acetate supplement by 60%.
Vitamin E: (Moderate) Administer vitamin E at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption. Orlistat has been shown to inhibit the absorption of a vitamin E acetate supplement by 60%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Warfarin therapy can be affected by changes in dietary intake of vitamin K. Since vitamin K absorption may be affected by orlistat, patients on chronic stable doses of warfarin should be monitored closely for changes in coagulation parameters when orlistat is prescribed; some experts recommend that the INR be monitored weekly during the first month of orlistat therapy. Reports of decreased prothrombin, increased INR and unbalanced anticoagulant treatment resulting in change of hemostatic parameters have been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and anticoagulants. Orlistat 120 mg PO 3 times per day administered orally for 16 days in 12 normal-weight subjects did not appear to alter vitamin K nutritional status. No changes in the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics (PT and serum Factor VII) of warfarin were noted following a single 30 mg dose of warfarin in a placebo-controlled, randomized, third-party blind, 2-way crossover study. However, vitamin K levels decreased.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Monitor virologic response if orlistat is required in a patient receiving antiretroviral therapy. Loss of virologic control has been observed in patients concomitantly receiving orlistat and an antiretroviral. Orlistat may reduce the oral absorption of antiretrovirals.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  GI symptoms that occurred at least twice that of placebo in >= 5% of patients taking orlistat during double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials include flatulence with discharge (23.9% year 1; 4.4% year 2; placebo roughly 1%), fecal urgency (22.1% year 1; 2.8% year 2; placebo 6.7% year 1), fecal incontinence (7.7% year 1; 1.8% year 2; placebo = 2% of patients taking orlistat during the first or second year of double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials (and at a percentage rate greater than placebo): abdominal pain (25.5 vs. 21.4% placebo); nausea/vomiting (8.1/3.1% vs. 7.3/3.5% placebo); dizziness (5.2 vs. 5% placebo); infectious diarrhea (5.3 vs. 4.4% placebo); rectal pain (5.2 vs. 4% placebo); gingival disorder (4.1 vs. 2.9% placebo); headache (31 vs. 28% placebo); influenza (39.7 vs. 36.2% placebo); general musculoskeletal pain, such as back pain (13.9 vs. 12.1% placebo), arthritis (5.4 vs. 4.8% placebo), and myalgia (4.2 vs. 3.3% placebo); menstrual irregularity (9.8 vs. 7.5% placebo);,fatigue (7.2 vs. 6.4% placebo); pedal edema (2.8 vs. 1.9% placebo); anxiety/depression (2.8/3.4% vs. 2.1/2.5% placebo); rash (unspecified) (4.3 vs. 4% placebo); respiratory tract infection (46 vs. 40% placebo); otitis (4.3 vs. 3.4% placebo); urinary tract infection (5.9 vs. 4.8% placebo); vaginitis (2.6 vs. 1.9% placebo); rectal pain (5.2 vs. 4% placebo). In the 4-year XENDOS study, the general pattern of adverse events was similar to that reported for the 1- and 2-year studies with the total incidence of gastrointestinal-related adverse events occurring in year 1 decreasing each year over the 4-year period.
 
Low serum levels of beta-carotene and vitamins A, D, and E were observed in a greater percentage of patients receiving orlistat compared to those taking placebo. Actual deficiencies due to hypovitaminosis may be prevented through the use of a daily multivitamin supplement that contains fat-soluble vitamins.
 
An increased risk of cholelithiasis has been associated with rapid and substantial weight loss. In a study investigating the use of orlistat in preventing type 2 diabetes, the rates of cholelithiasis were 2.9% (47/1649) for patients randomized to orlistat and 1.8% (30/1655) for patients randomized to placebo. The increased risk of cholelithiasis was not seen in orlistat trials not evaluating the prevention of type 2 diabetes. Nevertheless, clinicians should inform patients who take orlistat about this potential risk and instruct them to seek medical attention if they experience severe or prolonged abdominal pain and/or nausea and vomiting.
 
Rare post-marketing cases of hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with the use of orlistat. Signs and symptoms have included pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and anaphylactoid reactions. 
 
Very rare cases of bullous rash or eruption, elevated hepatic enzymes, increased alkaline phosphatase, and exceptional cases of hepatitis that may be serious have been reported. No causal relationship or physiopathological mechanism between hepatitis and orlistat therapy has been established. In addition, the FDA is reviewing reports of liver-related adverse events associated with the use of prescription and over-the-counter orlistat; 32 reports of serious liver injury, including 6 cases of hepatic failure, in patients using orlistat were submitted to FDA’s Adverse Event Reporting System. The most commonly reported adverse events described in all reports were jaundice, weakness, and abdominal pain. No definite association between liver injury and orlistat has been established. The FDA is not advising any changes in the prescription or OTC use of orlistat at this time (see Contraindications/Precautions).
 
Post-marketing cases of decreased prothrombin, increased INR, and unbalanced anticoagulant treatment resulting in change of hemostatic parameters have been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and anticoagulants. In clinical trials in obese diabetic patients, hypoglycemia and abdominal distension were also observed.
 
During post-marketing surveillance, cases of pancreatitis have been reported with the use of orlistat. No causal relationships or plausible mechanisms have been identified to account for this effect in weight-loss therapy.
 
During post-marketing surveillance, hypothyroidism has been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine. Patients treated with orlistat and levothyroxine should be monitored for changes in thyroid function; orlistat may interfere with the absorption of levothyroxine from the gastrointestinal tract. Administer levothyroxine and orlistat at least 4 hours apart.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    fecal incontinence, fecal urgency, flatulence, increased defecation, steatorrhea
    General Information
    GI symptoms that occurred at least twice that of placebo in >= 5% of patients taking orlistat during double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials include flatulence with discharge (23.9% year 1; 4.4% year 2; placebo roughly 1%), fecal urgency (22.1% year 1; 2.8% year 2; placebo 6.7% year 1), fecal incontinence (7.7% year 1; 1.8% year 2; placebo < 1%), steatorrhea (20% year 1; 6% year 2; placebo 2.9% year 1), oily spotting (26.6% year 1; 4.4% year 2; placebo roughly 1%), oily evacuation (12% year 1; 2.3% year 2; placebo < 1%) and increased defecation (10.8% year 1; 2.6% year 2; placebo 4.1% year 1). These and other commonly observed adverse effects were usually mild to moderate with approximately 50% lasting for less than one week. At least 1 GI event occurred in 79% of patients in the orlistat group compared to 59% in the placebo group. During the first year of trials, the dropout rate due to adverse effects, primarily steatorrhea, was significantly higher for orlistat (9.1%) compared to placebo (4%) groups. Adverse effects decreased during the second year of study. Overall dropout rates due to adverse effects were similar for both groups over the 2 year period. Adverse gastrointestinal events associated with orlistat may increase with a diet containing greater than 30% of calories from fat. To prevent exacerbation of GI reactions, patients should adhere to the recommended diet plan while taking orlistat. Psyllium has been reported to be an effective fiber adjunct to reduce some of the GI side effects associated with orlistat.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fecal incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fecal urgency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      increased defecation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      steatorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anxiety, back pain, depression, diarrhea, dizziness, edema, fatigue, headache, infection, menstrual irregularity, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, nausea, rash (unspecified), vaginitis, vomiting
    General Information
    The following adverse events occurred in >= 2% of patients taking orlistat during the first or second year of double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials (and at a percentage rate greater than placebo): abdominal pain (25.5 vs. 21.4% placebo); nausea/vomiting (8.1/3.1% vs. 7.3/3.5% placebo); dizziness (5.2 vs. 5% placebo); infectious diarrhea (5.3 vs. 4.4% placebo); rectal pain (5.2 vs. 4% placebo); gingival disorder (4.1 vs. 2.9% placebo); headache (31 vs. 28% placebo); influenza (39.7 vs. 36.2% placebo); general musculoskeletal pain, such as back pain (13.9 vs. 12.1% placebo), arthritis (5.4 vs. 4.8% placebo), and myalgia (4.2 vs. 3.3% placebo); menstrual irregularity (9.8 vs. 7.5% placebo); fatigue (7.2 vs. 6.4% placebo); pedal edema (2.8 vs. 1.9% placebo); anxiety/depression (2.8/3.4% vs. 2.1/2.5% placebo); rash (unspecified) (4.3 vs. 4% placebo); respiratory tract infection (46 vs. 40% placebo); otitis (4.3 vs. 3.4% placebo); urinary tract infection (5.9 vs. 4.8% placebo); vaginitis (2.6 vs. 1.9% placebo). In the 4-year XENDOS study, the general pattern of adverse events was similar to that reported for the 1- and 2-year studies with the total incidence of gastrointestinal-related adverse events occurring in year 1 decreasing each year over the 4-year period.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vaginitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      menstrual irregularity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypovitaminosis
    General Information
    Low serum levels of beta-carotene and vitamins A, D, and E were observed in a greater percentage of patients receiving orlistat compared to those taking placebo. Actual deficiencies due to hypovitaminosis may be prevented through the use of a daily multivitamin supplement that contains fat-soluble vitamins.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypovitaminosis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cholelithiasis
    General Information
    An increased risk of cholelithiasis has been associated with rapid and substantial weight loss. In a study investigating the use of orlistat in preventing type 2 diabetes, the rates of cholelithiasis were 2.9% (47/1649) for patients randomized to orlistat and 1.8% (30/1655) for patients randomized to placebo. The increased risk of cholelithiasis was not seen in orlistat trials not evaluating the prevention of type 2 diabetes. Nevertheless, clinicians should inform patients who take orlistat about this potential risk and instruct them to seek medical attention if they experience severe or prolonged abdominal pain and/or nausea and vomiting.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cholelithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, bullous rash, maculopapular rash, pruritus, purpura, urticaria, vasculitis
    General Information
    In rare cases, leukocytoclastic vasculitis has been reported during post-marketing use of orlistat, with clinical signs including palpable purpura, maculopapular rash, or bullous rash or eruption. Rare post-marketing cases of hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with the use of orlistat. Signs and symptoms have included pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and anaphylactoid reactions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vasculitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    There have been rare postmarketing reports of serious liver injury, hepatotoxicity, and hepatocellular necrosis in individuals treated with orlistat, with some of these cases resulting in acute hepatic failure, liver transplant, or death. Some of these reports involved individuals with other potential risks for liver injury. Individuals should be instructed to report any symptoms of hepatic dysfunction (anorexia, pruritus, jaundice, dark urine, light-colored stools, or right upper quadrant pain) while taking orlistat. When these symptoms occur, orlistat and other suspect medications should be discontinued immediately, and liver function tests (LFTs), including ALT and AST levels, obtained. Cases of elevated hepatic enzymes, increased alkaline phosphatase, exceptional cases of hepatitis, severe liver injury with hepatic necrosis, and acute hepatic failure have been reported during post-marketing use of orlistat. In addition, in August 2009, the FDA announced that it was reviewing reports of liver-related adverse events associated with the use of prescription and over-the-counter orlistat; after a comprehensive review, the FDA identified 13 total reports of severe liver injury with orlistat. Of the 13 cases, 2 patients died from hepatic failure and 3 patients required liver transplantation. No definite association between liver injury and orlistat has been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Post-marketing cases of decreased prothrombin, increased INR, and unbalanced anticoagulant treatment resulting in change of hemostatic parameters have been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and anticoagulants. In clinical trials in obese diabetic patients, hypoglycemia and abdominal distension were also observed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    pancreatitis
    General Information
    During post-marketing surveillance, cases of pancreatitis have been reported with the use of orlistat. No causal relationships or plausible mechanisms have been identified to account for this effect in weight-loss therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypothyroidism
    General Information
    During post-marketing surveillance, hypothyroidism has been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine. Patients treated with orlistat and levothyroxine should be monitored for changes in thyroid function; orlistat may interfere with the absorption of levothyroxine from the gastrointestinal tract. Administer levothyroxine and orlistat at least 4 hours apart.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypothyroidism
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    During post marketing surveillance of orlistat therapy, seizures have been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and anticonvulsant drugs. Patients should be monitored for changes in the frequency or severity of seizures.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    vitamin D deficiency
    General Information
    Orlistat reduces the absorption of vitamin D and may lead to vitamin D deficiency. Patients should be monitored and supplemented with vitamin D when necessary.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vitamin D deficiency
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    acute kidney injury, hyperoxaluria, nephrolithiasis
    General Information
    Postmarketing reports of nephrolithiasis or acute kidney injury have occurred following the use of orlistat. Reports of acute oxalate nephropathy, calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis, and hyperoxaluria have also occurred. Several reported cases occurred in people with other possible reasons for their kidney diagnoses besides taking orlistat, including obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure, and a history of kidney disease or kidney stones. The FDA has indicated that the renal risks exist at both prescription and nonprescription doses. Advise individuals who are taking orlistat to stop using it if they develop symptoms of kidney injury or kidney stones, such as back or groin pain, painful urination, blood in the urine, feet and leg swelling, or less frequent urination.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperoxaluria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nephrolithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      acute kidney injury
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Orlistat is a gastrointestinal lipase inhibitor. It is used by prescription (Xenical) as an adjunct to lifestyle modifications for weight loss and chronic weight management in adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older. A low-dose non-prescription product (Alli) is available for overweight adults. Orlistat can produce a mean weight loss of approximately 4% and can reduce the risk for weight regain in chronic use. Modification of some cardiovascular risk factors in obese patients after 1 year of treatment have been noted. Unlike other weight loss medications, orlistat works non-systemically, blocking the absorption of dietary fat. The non-systemic action of orlistat can be beneficial in obese patients with conditions such as cardiovascular disease, renal disease, or substance abuse; however, treatment is associated with significant gastrointestinal side effects (loose/oily stools, flatulence, fecal urgency) that can affect treatment adherence, limiting the utility of the drug for chronic weight management. Because orlistat reduces the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins, a daily multivitamin containing fat-soluble vitamins (i.e., vitamins A,D,E,K) is recommended during therapy. Guidelines from the American Association of Clinical Endocrinology emphasize the importance of individualized and whole-person health in the treatment of people with obesity and adiposity-based chronic disease. These guidelines recommend orlistat as a second-line option for treatment of individuals with obesity or overweight and comorbid hypertension and as a third-line treatment in those with comorbid type 2 diabetes mellitus, prediabetes metabolic syndrome, and for diabetes prevention. In pediatric patients, orlistat remains the only FDA-approved medication for weight loss; pharmacotherapy is usually reserved for pediatric patients with a BMI at the 95th percentile or more. Pharmacotherapy for overweight children (BMI 85th to 94th percentile) should be reserved for those with significant, severe comorbidities who have not responded to lifestyle modification. Orlistat was initially approved by the FDA in 1999 as a prescription product; non-prescription status was attained in 2007 for the reduced-dosage product.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Orlistat produces weight loss through inhibition of nutrient absorption. A covalent bond is formed with the active serine residue site of gastric and pancreatic lipases within the lumen of the stomach and the small intestine. As these enzymes become unavailable to hydrolyze dietary triglycerides into free fatty acids and monoglycerides, less fat is absorbed by the body. This results in decreased caloric intake that may result in negative energy balance and weight loss. Therefore, systemic absorption of the drug is not needed to produce a weight-lowering effect. At the recommended therapeutic dose of 120 mg orlistat PO three times per day, dietary fat absorption is inhibited by approximately 30%. Because orlistat may reduce the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, K, and beta-carotene, it is recommended patients take a daily multivitamin containing these vitamins during therapy, with the multivitamin supplement taken at least 2 hours before or after the administration orlistat.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Peak plasma concentrations of orlistat (<5 ng/ml) occurred approximately 8 hours after a 360 mg dose. Based on fecal fat measurements, the effect of orlistat may be seen within 24 to 48 hours.
  Text
  Orlistat is administered orally and has minimal systemic absorption. Sporadic intact amounts of orlistat, low plasma concentration levels ( 99% bound to plasma proteins (primarily lipoproteins and albumin) with minimal partitioning into erythrocytes. Metabolism of orlistat to weakly active and inactive metabolites is believed to occur mainly within the gastrointestinal wall. Approximately 83% of a single oral dose of orlistat was excreted unchanged in the feces. Renal excretion was < 2% of the dose. Complete excretion of both urinary and fecal orlistat was reached in 3 to 5 days. The estimated half-life of the absorbed portion of orlistat was approximately 1 to 2 hours.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer with each main meal containing fat; can be administered up to 1 hour after the meal. Patients should be on a reduced-calorie diet with approximately 30% of the calories from fat. Protein, carbohydrate, and fat intake should be balanced over 3 main meals.
May omit a dose when a meal is missed or if a meal contains no fat.
Orlistat decreases the absorption of some fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, K) and beta-carotene. To ensure adequate nutrition, patients should take a daily multivitamin supplement that contains these fat-soluble vitamins. Administer the multivitamin at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat. For example, have the patient take the multivitamin once per day at bedtime unless otherwise directed by the prescriber.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    360 mg/day PO (Xenical, Rx-only), 180 mg/day PO (Alli, OTC use).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    360 mg/day PO (Xenical, Rx-only), 180 mg/day PO (Alli, OTC use).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    360 mg/day PO (e.g., Xenical, Rx-only); OTC use (e.g., Alli) not recommended.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: 360 mg/day PO (Xenical, Rx-only); OTC use (i.e., Alli) not recommended.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed. During treatment, if signs or symptoms of liver injury occur, discontinue treatment. Some guidelines suggest avoidance of orlistat and other weight-loss medications in patients with severe hepatic disease.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
