=== Alendronate/Cholecalciferol — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3426)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alendronate; cholecalciferol is a once-weekly combination of an oral bisphosphonate with a vitamin D3 supplement.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1 tablet/week PO with a maximum of 70 mg/week PO alendronate and 140 mcg/week (5,600 International Units/week) PO cholecalciferol.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthenia, dizziness, fever, malaise, peripheral edema, vertigo, arthralgia, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, alopecia, angioedema, erythema, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash (unspecified), stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, conjunctivitis, ocular inflammation, ocular pain, uveitis, visual impairment

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. NOTE:

ALENDRONATE/CHOLECALCIFEROL

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Fosamax Plus D

Indication Specific Dosing

Recommendations for adult calcium and vitamin D intake from the Bone Health and Osteoporosis Foundation (BHOF) to promote general bone health:
BHOF recommends a target daily intake of 1,200 mg of elemental calcium for females older than 50 years and males older than 70 years. Target daily elemental calcium intake for males 70 years or younger or females 50 years and younger is 1,000 mg.
BHOF recommends a daily vitamin D intake of 20 to 25 mcg (800 to 1,000 international units) for adults 50 years and older. For younger adults, follow the recommended daily allowance suggestions for vitamin D based on age.


For the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis or osteoporosis in men

Oral dosage (once-weekly tablets)
Adults


1 tablet PO once weekly. For most adults, the appropriate dose is alendronate 70 mg with cholecalciferol 140 mcg (5,600 International Units) PO once weekly. A dose of alendronate 70 mg with cholecalciferol 70 mcg (2,800 International Units) PO once weekly is also available. Supplement calcium and with additional vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. Reevaluate periodically. The optimal duration of use has not been determined. People at low-risk for fracture should be considered for drug discontinuation after 3 to 5 years of use. After discontinuation, reassess fracture risk periodically. Consider stopping bisphosphonate treatment after 5 years unless there is a strong indication for treatment continuation, as the risk for certain medication-related harms may be increased.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

General Information

NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of alendronate and cholecalciferol together. Consult the individual alendronate monograph for more detailed information.

esophageal obstruction, inability to stand or sit upright, upper GI disease


Alendronate; cholecalciferol is contraindicated in individuals with abnormalities of the esophagus or esophageal obstruction which delay esophageal emptying, such as esophageal stricture or achalasia. Bisphosphonates may cause upper gastrointestinal mucosal irritation and may aggravate existing esophageal or upper GI disease, such as Barrett's esophagus, esophagitis, dysphasia, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), hiatal hernia, duodenitis, ulcers, or GI perforation. Further, use is contraindicated in individuals with an inability to stand or sit upright for at least 30 minutes after dose administration as the risk of esophagitis and esophageal ulceration/erosion appears to be greater in patients who lay down after taking this medicine, who fail to swallow it with the recommended full glass (6 to 8 oz) of water, and/or who continue to take oral bisphosphates after developing symptoms suggestive of esophageal irritation. Ensure complete administration instructions are followed. In people who cannot comply with dosing instructions due to mental disability, therapy with alendronate; cholecalciferol should occur under appropriate supervision. There have been conflicting findings from studies evaluating the risk between esophageal cancer and oral bisphosphonate use. However, the FDA has not concluded that individuals taking bisphosphonates have an increased risk of esophageal cancer.


geriatric


Geriatric adults may be at increased risk for the development of adverse GI reactions during alendronate; cholecalciferol therapy. Increased age has been identified as an independent risk factor particularly for GI perforations, ulcers, or bleeding, but not necessarily esophageal events. Additional vitamin D supplementation beyond the amount provided by alendronate; cholecalciferol may be needed in individuals who are over 70 years of age, nursing home bound, or chronically ill, as these patients are at increased risk for vitamin D insufficiency.


hypocalcemia, hypoparathyroidism, malabsorption syndrome, parathyroid surgery, small bowel resection, thyroid surgery, vitamin D deficiency


Alendronate; cholecalciferol is contraindicated in individuals with hypocalcemia. Treat hypocalcemia and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism prior to initiation of alendronate; cholecalciferol therapy. Monitoring of calcium and mineral levels (phosphorus and magnesium) is highly recommended in individuals with pre-existing hypocalcemia and disturbances of mineral metabolism (e.g., hypoparathyroidism, thyroid surgery, parathyroid surgery, malabsorption syndromes, small bowel resection). If an electrolyte imbalance (i.e., hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, or hypophosphatemia) occurs during therapy, short-term supplementation, including adequate calcium and vitamin D, may be necessary. Vitamin D deficiency must be pretreated prior to initiation of alendronate; cholecalciferol therapy. Individuals at increased risk for vitamin D insufficiency (e.g., over the age of 70, nursing home-bound, or chronically ill) may need vitamin D supplementation. Alendronate; cholecalciferol alone should not be used to treat vitamin D deficiency (commonly defined as 25-hydroxyvitamin D level below 9 ng/mL). Individuals with gastrointestinal malabsorption syndromes may require higher doses of vitamin D supplementation and measurement of 25-hydroxyvitamin D should be considered. Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is essential.


renal failure, renal impairment


Alendronate; cholecalciferol is not recommended for individuals with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 35 mL/minute) or renal failure. No dosage adjustment is needed for individuals with a creatinine clearance of 35 mL/minute or greater. Individuals with renal insufficiency will have decreased ability to form the active 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 metabolite.


anemia, coagulopathy, dental disease, dental work, ill-fitting dentures, infection, malignancy, planned procedure, poor oral hygiene


Consider dental examination and preventive dental work before starting bisphosphonate therapy, as dental extractions may be a risk factor for developing osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ). Avoid oral surgery during bisphosphonate therapy if possible. Other risk factors for ONJ include poor oral hygiene, dental disease, malignancy, concomitant therapies (e.g., chemotherapy, corticosteroids), and comorbidities (e.g., anemia, coagulopathy, infection, ill-fitting dentures). The risk of ONJ may increase with duration of exposure to bisphosphonates. For people requiring a planned procedure, such as invasive dental procedures, discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment may reduce the risk for ONJ. Clinical judgment of the treating physician and/or oral surgeon should guide the management plan of each individual based on benefit/risk assessment. People who develop ONJ while on bisphosphonate therapy should receive care from an oral surgeon. In these people, extensive dental surgery to treat ONJ may exacerbate the condition.


breast-feeding


Use alendronate; cholecalciferol with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of alendronate; cholecalciferol in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for alendronate; cholecalciferol, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition. Use of cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) by lactating people within the recommended daily dietary intake is generally recognized as safe.


sarcoidosis


Lymphoma, leukemia, and sarcoidosis are conditions that are associated with unregulated 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D overproduction. Administration of alendronate; cholecalciferol to individuals with one of these conditions may cause or worsen hypercalcemia or hypercalciuria. Monitor urine and serum calcium concentrations in these individuals.


pregnancy


Discontinue alendronate; cholecalciferol when pregnancy is recognized. There are no available data on the use of alendronate; cholecalciferol during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of adverse outcomes. Based on animal data, bisphosphonates may cause fetal harm. Animal reproductive studies indicate alendronate may result in reduced fetal ossification and protracted parturition. Additionally, maternal hypocalcemia associated with alendronate use resulted in late pregnancy maternal and fetal deaths. Use of cholecalciferol within the recommended daily dietary intakes for pregnant people is generally recognized as safe. However, high doses of cholecalciferol resulted in neonatal death, decreased fetal weight, and impaired osteogenesis in animal reproductive studies.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with alendronate; cholecalciferol. Bisphosphonates are incorporated into the bone matrix and gradually released over weeks to years. The amount of bisphosphonate incorporated into adult bone and the subsequent amount available for release back into the systemic circulation is directly related to the dose and duration of bisphosphonate use. There is a potential risk of fetal harm (e.g., skeletal and other abnormalities) if a person becomes pregnant after completing a course of bisphosphonate therapy. The impact of variables such as time between cessation of bisphosphonate therapy to conception, the particular bisphosphonate used, and the route of administration (intravenous vs. oral) on the risk of adverse fetal effects has not been studied.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Discontinue alendronate; cholecalciferol when pregnancy is recognized. There are no available data on the use of alendronate; cholecalciferol during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of adverse outcomes. Based on animal data, bisphosphonates may cause fetal harm. Animal reproductive studies indicate alendronate may result in reduced fetal ossification and protracted parturition. Additionally, maternal hypocalcemia associated with alendronate use resulted in late pregnancy maternal and fetal deaths. Use of cholecalciferol within the recommended daily dietary intakes for pregnant people is generally recognized as safe. However, high doses of cholecalciferol resulted in neonatal death, decreased fetal weight, and impaired osteogenesis in animal reproductive studies.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and aluminum hydroxide by at least 30 minutes. Aluminum-containing antacids will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and aluminum hydroxide by at least 30 minutes. Aluminum-containing antacids will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium hydroxide in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia. (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and aluminum hydroxide by at least 30 minutes. Aluminum-containing antacids will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium hydroxide in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia. (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and aluminum hydroxide by at least 30 minutes. Aluminum-containing antacids will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and aluminum hydroxide by at least 30 minutes. Aluminum-containing antacids will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Aspirin, ASA: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Sodium bicarbonate can reduce the absorption of the oral bisphosphonates. Wait at least 30 minutes after oral alendronate, 1 hour after ibandronate, and 2 hours after oral etidronate, risedronate, or tiludronate before taking a sodium bicarbonatecontaining product. (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class. (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) When the intravenous formulation of alendronate is used for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, combination therapy with loop diuretics should be used with caution in order to avoid hypocalcemia. In patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy, the initial treatment typically includes the use of loop diuretics, in combination with saline hydration, however, diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia and dehydration.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Calcium (oral): (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Acetate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Gluconate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Castor Oil: (Moderate) Absorption of fat-soluble vitamins may be decreased with coadministration of castor oil.
Celecoxib: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine can decrease the intestinal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins. If used concurrently, administration of the two agents should be staggered for the longest time interval possible.
Chromium: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) It is not known if colesevelam can reduce the absorption of oral vitamin supplements including fat soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K. To minimize potential interactions, administer vitamins at least 4 hours before colesevelam.
Colestipol: (Moderate) Separate administration of fat-soluble vitamins by 1 hour before or 4 hours after a colestipol dose to limit effects on oral absorption. Because it sequesters bile acids, colestipol may interfere with normal fat absorption and thus may reduce absorption of fat-soluble vitamins.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including alendronate.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Dexlansoprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Diclofenac: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Diflunisal: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) When the intravenous formulation of alendronate is used for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, combination therapy with loop diuretics should be used with caution in order to avoid hypocalcemia. In patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy, the initial treatment typically includes the use of loop diuretics, in combination with saline hydration, however, diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia and dehydration.
Etodolac: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Fenoprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Flurbiprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Food: (Major) Absorption of alendronate is very poor; oral bioavailability is less than 1%. Because of this, food interactions can be very significant. Alendronate oral absorption becomes almost negligible if alendronate is taken within 2 hours of breakfast. Even orange juice or coffee can reduce bioavailability by about 60%. To achieve maximum possible bioavailability alendronate must be taken in the fasting state and at least 2 hours before a standard breakfast.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Phenytoin and fosphenytoin can decrease the activity of vitamin D (e.g., cholecalciferol) by increasing its metabolism. In rare cases, this has caused anticonvulsant-induced rickets and osteomalacia. Vitamin D supplementation or dosage adjustments may be required in patients who are receiving chronic treatment with anticonvulsants.
Furosemide: (Moderate) When the intravenous formulation of alendronate is used for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, combination therapy with loop diuretics should be used with caution in order to avoid hypocalcemia. In patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy, the initial treatment typically includes the use of loop diuretics, in combination with saline hydration, however, diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia and dehydration.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Phenytoin and fosphenytoin can decrease the activity of vitamin D (e.g., cholecalciferol) by increasing its metabolism. In rare cases, this has caused anticonvulsant-induced rickets and osteomalacia. Vitamin D supplementation or dosage adjustments may be required in patients who are receiving chronic treatment with anticonvulsants.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) High intake of phosphates concomitantly with vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may lead to hyperphosphatemia. Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with phosphorus salts. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia.
Ibuprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Indomethacin: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Iron Sucrose, Sucroferric Oxyhydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Iron: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Ketoprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ketorolac: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Lanthanum Carbonate: (Moderate) To limit absorption problems, the oral bisphosphonates should not be taken within 2 hours of dosing with lanthanum carbonate. Oral drugs known to interact with cationic antacids, like the oral bisphosphonates, may also be bound by lanthanum carbonate. Separating times of administration will maximize absorption and clinical benefit of the bisphosphonate. Separate the times of administration appropriately. Monitor the patient's clinical status and bone density as recommended to ensure the appropriate response to bisphosphonate therapy is obtained.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Separating times of administration of alendronate from levothyroxine and other medications will maximize alendronate absorption and clinical benefit. For example, administering the levothyroxine dose at bedtime can avoid this interaction with alendronate. The bioavailability of alendronate was slightly decreased when alendronate and levothyroxine were co-administered to healthy subjects The mean AUC and Cmax of alendronate decreased by 7% and 9%, respectively. Alendronate should always be administered upon arising for the day and at least 30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or other medication of the day. To minimize interactions, levothyroxine is also best taken on an empty stomach with a glass of water.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Separating times of administration of alendronate from levothyroxine and other medications will maximize alendronate absorption and clinical benefit. For example, administering the levothyroxine dose at bedtime can avoid this interaction with alendronate. The bioavailability of alendronate was slightly decreased when alendronate and levothyroxine were co-administered to healthy subjects The mean AUC and Cmax of alendronate decreased by 7% and 9%, respectively. Alendronate should always be administered upon arising for the day and at least 30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or other medication of the day. To minimize interactions, levothyroxine is also best taken on an empty stomach with a glass of water.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) When the intravenous formulation of alendronate is used for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, combination therapy with loop diuretics should be used with caution in order to avoid hypocalcemia. In patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy, the initial treatment typically includes the use of loop diuretics, in combination with saline hydration, however, diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia and dehydration.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Magnesium Citrate: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium citrate in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia. (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and magnesium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Magnesium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium hydroxide in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia.
Magnesium Salts: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia. (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and magnesium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Magnesium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Magnesium: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia. (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and magnesium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Magnesium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Mefenamic Acid: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Meloxicam: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Mineral Oil: (Moderate) Absorption of fat-soluble vitamins is reported to be decreased with prolonged oral administration of mineral oil. However, despite warnings in various texts, there is little direct evidence that the interaction is of practical/clinical importance with limited use as directed. It may be prudent for those taking dietary supplements of Vitamin A, D, E, or K to separate administration by 1 hour before or 4 hours after a mineral oil oral dosage to help limit absorption interactions. Theoretically, the effect on fat-soluble vitamin absorption may more likely occur with prolonged or chronic administration of mineral oil.
Nabumetone: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Naproxen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class. (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class. (Moderate) Sodium bicarbonate can reduce the absorption of the oral bisphosphonates. Wait at least 30 minutes after oral alendronate, 1 hour after ibandronate, and 2 hours after oral etidronate, risedronate, or tiludronate before taking a sodium bicarbonatecontaining product.
Orlistat: (Moderate) Orlistat reduced the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins during clinical trials. The bioavailability of orally administered vitamin D may also be decreased. In patients receiving orally-administered vitamin D with orlistat, close monitoring is recommended. In addition, the manufacturer recommends that fat-soluble vitamins be administered at least 2 hours before or after the administration of orlistat to limit effects on oral absorption.
Oxaprozin: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Pantoprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Parathyroid Hormone: (Moderate) Coadministration of alendronate with parathyroid hormone (PTH) is not recommended as concomitant use leads to a reduction in the calcium sparing effect, which can interfere with the normalization of serum calcium. The use of PTH alone was superior to use in combination with alendronate in clinical trials. In clinical trials, there was no evidence of synergy between PTH and alendronate. Changes in the volumetric density of trabecular bone, the cortical volume at the hip, and levels of markers of bone turnover suggest that the concurrent use of alendronate may reduce the anabolic effects of PTH. Concurrent use with other bisphosphonates is also controversial. However, sequential use (e.g., PTH followed by anti-resorptive treatment with bisphosphonates) appears to be beneficial and to help maintain beneficial bone effects.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Phenytoin and fosphenytoin can decrease the activity of vitamin D (e.g., cholecalciferol) by increasing its metabolism. In rare cases, this has caused anticonvulsant-induced rickets and osteomalacia. Vitamin D supplementation or dosage adjustments may be required in patients who are receiving chronic treatment with anticonvulsants.
Phosphorated Carbohydrate Solution: (Major) High intake of phosphates concomitantly with vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may lead to hyperphosphatemia. Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with phosphorus salts. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia.
Phosphorus: (Major) High intake of phosphates concomitantly with vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may lead to hyperphosphatemia. Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with phosphorus salts. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia.
Piroxicam: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Polycarbophil: (Moderate) Coadministration of alendronate with calcium polycarbophil can interfere with the oral absorption of alendronate; do not administer calcium polycarbophil within 30 minutes of alendronate. Each 625 mg of calcium polycarbophil contains a substantial amount of calcium (approximately 125 mg).
Potassium Phosphate: (Major) High intake of phosphates concomitantly with vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may lead to hyperphosphatemia. Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with phosphorus salts. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Major) High intake of phosphates concomitantly with vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may lead to hyperphosphatemia. Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with phosphorus salts. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Rifampin is a potent inducer of the cytochrome P450 hepatic enzyme system and can decrease the plasma concentrations and possibly the efficacy of cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3. In some cases, reduced concentrations of circulating vitamin D and 1,25-dihydoxy vitamin D have been accompanied by decreased serum calcium and phosphate, and elevated parathyroid hormone. Dosage adjustments of cholecalciferol, Vitamin D3 may be required.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Sodium bicarbonate can reduce the absorption of the oral bisphosphonates. Wait at least 30 minutes after oral alendronate, 1 hour after ibandronate, and 2 hours after oral etidronate, risedronate, or tiludronate before taking a sodium bicarbonatecontaining product.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia. (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and magnesium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Magnesium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Sucralfate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of oral alendronate with aluminum-containing medications (e.g., sucralfate) may interfere with the absorption of alendronate. Separation of administration is advised. At least 30 minutes should elapse after an alendronate dose before taking aluminum-containing drugs.
Sulindac: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Tolmetin: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Torsemide: (Moderate) When the intravenous formulation of alendronate is used for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, combination therapy with loop diuretics should be used with caution in order to avoid hypocalcemia. In patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy, the initial treatment typically includes the use of loop diuretics, in combination with saline hydration, however, diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia and dehydration.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of alendronate and cholecalciferol together. Consult the individual alendronate monograph for more detailed information.

atrial fibrillation


FDA is reviewing safety data regarding the use of bisphosphonates such as alendronate; cholecalciferol and an increased risk of serious atrial fibrillation. In the HORIZON Pivotal Fracture Trial, the incidence of serious atrial fibrillation (life-threatening or resulting in hospitalization or disability) was significantly higher in patients receiving zoledronic acid than placebo (50 patients or 1.3% versus 20 patients or 0.5%, P<0.001), although the incidence of any atrial fibrillation (serious and non-serious) was not different between the 2 groups. Similarly, in a re-analysis of the Fracture Intervention Trial, patients taking alendronate also experienced a trend towards a higher incidence of serious atrial fibrillation versus those taking placebo (47 patients or 1.5% vs. 31 patients or 1%, HR 1.51, 95% CI 0.97—2.40, P=0.07). Similar to the HORIZON trial, any atrial fibrillation was not higher in patients taking alendronate. Post-marketing surveillance of reports of atrial fibrillation in patients receiving oral and intravenous bisphosphonates has not revealed a subset of patients at risk for the adverse effect. In the majority of cases in patients receiving zoledronic acid, atrial fibrillation occurred more than 1 month after drug infusion. Currently, FDA does not recommend a change in prescribing practices for this class of drugs, including alendronate; cholecalciferol; a causal relationship has not been identified.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, dysphagia, esophageal stricture, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, flatulence, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI perforation, nausea, oral ulceration, peptic ulcer, vomiting


Adverse effects with oral alendronate during the clinical trials were reported as generally mild and primarily affected the gastrointestinal system. The safety profile of alendronate; cholecalciferol is similar to alendronate alone. In 4 clinical trials of 3—4 years duration that enrolled 7453 postmenopausal women, the safety of 2 alendronate regimens, 10 mg/day or 5 mg/day for 2 years followed by 10 mg/day for 1—2 years (the fracture intervention trial) was evaluated. Patients with pre-existing GI disease and concomitant use of NSAIDs were included. At doses of 10 mg/day, abdominal pain was the most commonly reported event (6.6% of patients vs. 1.5% for FIT). More specific events reported are nausea (3.6% vs. 1.1%), vomiting (1% vs. 0.2%), constipation (3.1% vs. 0%), diarrhea (3.1% vs. 0.6%), flatulence (2.6% vs. 0.2%), acid regurgitation (2% vs. 1.1%), dyspepsia (3.6% vs. 1.1%), esophageal ulceration (1.5% vs. 0.1%), dysphagia (1% vs. 0.1%), abdominal distention (1% vs. 0%), gastritis (0.5% vs. 0.6%) and dysgeusia (0.5% vs. 0.1%). The incidence of serious adverse events was similar in the alendronate and placebo groups across all 4 trials (30.9% vs. 30.7%). In a 1-year, double-blind, multicenter study comparing alendronate 10 mg/day to 70 mg weekly, once weekly administration of alendronate had a similar safety and tolerability profile in postmenopausal women as compared with once daily administration. Adverse events included abdominal pain (3.7% weekly regimen vs. 3% daily regimen), dyspepsia (2.7% vs. 2.2%), acid regurgitation (1.8% vs. 2.4%), nausea (1.9% vs. 2.4%), abdominal distension (1% vs. 1.4%), constipation (0.8% vs. 1.6%), flatulence (0.4% vs. 1.6%), gastritis (0.2% vs. 1.1%), and gastric ulcer (0% vs. 1.1%). In men with osteoporosis, however, the reported events and rates were slightly higher for the once weekly dose compared to the once daily dose. The reported adverse events for alendronate 70 mg once weekly vs. 10 mg/day in men are gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) (2.8% vs. 0.7%), acid regurgitation (0% vs. 4.1% dyspepsia (2.8% vs. 3.4%), diarrhea (2.8% vs. 1.4%), flatulence (0 vs. 4.1%), nausea (0% vs. 2.1%), and abdominal pain (0.9% vs. 2.1%). In a 15-week double-blind study of osteoporotic postmenopausal women (n = 682) and men (n = 35), the safety of alendronate; cholecalciferol was similar to alendronate; this finding was consistent with the results of a double-blind extension study that was also conducted. Post-marketing, there have been reports of GI mucosa irritation, esophagitis, esophageal erosions, esophageal ulcers, esophageal stricture, esophageal perforation, GI perforation, and oral ulceration. Peptic ulcer and duodenal ulcers with complications such as GI bleeding have been reported.  In post-marketing reports, more than half the women taking alendronate for osteoporosis do not comply with the dosing instructions, which may lead to decreased compliance and effectiveness of the medication and increased adverse reactions. To reduce the possibility of esophageal side effects, careful adherence to the dosing instructions (take with a full glass of water immediately upon arising for the day at least 30 minutes before taking food and remaining upright for at least 30 minutes after administration) is critical. Esophageal and oral ulceration occur more frequently when alendronate tablets are chewed or dissolved in the mouth. If a patient develops dysphagia, odynophagia, retrosternal pain, or new or worsening pyrosis, discontinuation of alendronate; cholecalciferol is recommended.


asthenia, dizziness, fever, malaise, peripheral edema, vertigo


Adverse effects reported with alendronate; cholecalciferol during post-marketing surveillance include asthenia, fever, and malaise, usually occurring during drug initiation. In addition, dizziness, peripheral edema, and vertigo have been reported.


arthralgia, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia


Reports of severe and occasionally incapacitating bone pain, arthralgia, and musculoskeletal pain (myalgia) have been received during the post-marketing period of alendronate. Symptoms began 1 day to years after drug initiation. Most patients had relief of these symptoms upon drug discontinuation and some had symptom recurrence with drug re- initiation. During double-blind clinical trials of alendronate in postmenopausal women, musculoskeletal pain (bone, muscle or joint) was reported in 0.4—4.1% of patients who received active drug. Muscle cramps were reported in 0—1.1% of patients. Joint swelling has also been observed. Risk factors for and the incidence of bone, muscle, and/or joint pain are not known. This reaction is different than the acute phase reaction of fever, chills, and bone, muscle, and/or joint pain that accompanies intermittent intravenous or weekly or monthly oral bisphosphonates. The acute phase reaction tends to resolve with continued use. Bisphosphonates should be considered as a cause for any patient who presents with severe musculoskeletal or joint pain; furthermore, if alendronate; cholecalciferol is determined to be the cause, temporary or permanent discontinuation in drug therapy should be considered.


hypocalcemia


Hypocalcemia may occur in patients who receive alendronate; cholecalciferol. The mean reduction in serum calcium concentrations with alendronate monotherapy was -1.4% as compared with -0.9% with alendronate; cholecalciferol during clinical trials. Symptomatic and asymptomatic hypocalcemia have occurred. Hypocalcemia must be corrected prior to treatment initiation.


alopecia, angioedema, erythema, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Rash (unspecified), occasionally with photosensitivity, pruritus, urticaria, and erythema have been reported with alendronate therapy and may occur with alendronate; cholecalciferol. This rash may be made worse by sun exposure. Post-marketing use has been associated with reports of angioedema, acute asthma exacerbations, alopecia, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.


conjunctivitis, ocular inflammation, ocular pain, uveitis, visual impairment


Post-marketing use of alendronate has been associated with reports of uveitis, episcleritis, or scleritis; these may occur with alendronate; cholecalciferol. Nonspecific conjunctivitis seldom requires treatment and usually decreases in intensity during subsequent exposure to a bisphosphonate. However, no reported case of unilateral or bilateral scleritis resolved until the bisphosphonate was discontinued. More than one ocular side effect can occur at the same time; for instance, episcleritis may occur in conjunction with uveitis. In some instances, the drug may need to be discontinued in order for the ocular inflammation to resolve; for scleritis to resolve the bisphosphonate must be discontinued. Patients with visual impairment or ocular pain should be referred to an ophthalmologist.


osteonecrosis


Osteonecrosis of the jaw has been reported in patients receiving bisphosphonate therapy and may occur with alendronate; cholecalciferol. Although the majority of patients affected receive either pamidronate or zoledronic acid for the management of metastatic cancer to the bone, there have been reports of osteonecrosis in patients receiving oral bisphosphonate therapy, including alendronate, for the treatment of osteoporosis. Most of the reported cases have appeared after dental tooth extraction; however, some cases have appeared spontaneously. It is not possible to determine if the reported events are related to bisphosphonates, concomitant drugs or other therapies (e.g., chemotherapy, radiotherapy, corticosteroid), a patient's underlying disease state, or other comorbid risk factors (e.g., anemia, infection, preexisting oral disease). The risk may increase with duration of exposure to the bisphosphonate. Typical signs and symptoms of osteonecrosis of the jaw include pain, swelling, infection, or poor healing of the gums, loosening of the teeth, numbness or a feeling of heaviness in the jaw, and drainage of exposed bone. If osteonecrosis of the jaw does develop during bisphosphonate therapy, it should be noted that dental surgery may exacerbate the condition. For patients requiring dental work, no data are available to suggest whether discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment reduces the risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw. The treating physician and dentist should use their best clinical judgment to guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit and risk assessments. Based on a review of the available literature, treatments that have been used include local debridement, bone resection or other surgery, antimicrobials, antiseptic mouthwash, and hyperbaric oxygen. While a consensus on the best treatment strategies does not exist, the American Academy of Oral Medicine recommends prevention. Preventive measure include evaluation by a dentist prior to intravenous bisphosphonate initiation and within 3 months of oral bisphosphonate initiation, correction of dental complications prior to drug initiation, and continued regular follow-up with a dentist. For the treatment of osteonecrosis, recommendations include superficial debridement, bone resection when indicated, systemic antimicrobial for infections with culture-directed therapy or penicillin, amoxicillin, or clindamycin empirically, or use of chlorhexidine mouthwash 3—4 times daily. Discontinuation of the bisphosphonate once osteonecrosis occurs is controversial as the half-life of bisphosphonates within the bone is estimated to be years. Cholesteatoma of the external auditory canal (a type of focal osteonecrosis) has been reported during post-marketing use of alendronate.


hypervitaminosis D



Hypervitaminosis D, manifest as hypercalcemia, can occur. Early signs of hypercalcemia include fatigue, somnolence, headache, anorexia, xerostomia, metallic taste, nausea/vomiting, abdominal cramps, constipation, diarrhea, vertigo, tinnitus, ataxia, exanthema, myalgia, arthralgia, and irritability. Polyuria, photophobia, anorexia, rhinorrhea, hyperthermia, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension are all late symptoms of hypercalcemia. Alendronate; cholecalciferol should be discontinued if a patient develops hypervitaminosis D.



hyperphosphatemia, hypophosphatemia


Alendronate; cholecalciferol may cause either hypophosphatemia or hyperphosphatemia. Alendronate can decrease serum phosphate concentrations, and calcitriol increases the absorption of phosphorus and can cause hyperphosphatemia, especially in patients with renal insufficiency. Dosage adjustments may be required for patients receiving aluminum-containing antacids for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia. Monitor patients for symptoms of hypophosphatemia or hyperphosphatemia during alendronate; cholecalciferol receipt.


bone fractures


Atypical, low-energy, or low trauma bone fractures of the femoral shaft have been reported during treatment with bisphosphonates, including alendronate; cholecalciferol, in people with osteoporosis. Atypical femur and other fractures most commonly occur with minimal or no trauma to the affected area. These fractures can occur anywhere in the femoral shaft from just below the lesser trochanter to above the supracondylar flare and are transverse or short oblique in orientation without evidence of comminution. Atypical fractures of other bones have also been reported. They may be bilateral. These fractures can also occur in osteoporotic subjects who have not been treated with bisphosphonates. Concomitant treatment with a glucocorticoid may also induce these fractures. Prodromal pain in the affected area, usually presenting as dull, aching thigh pain, weeks to months before a complete fracture occurs was reported by individuals. Other co-morbid conditions associated with the development of atypical femoral fracture include: use of other anti-resorptive agents, glucocorticoid use, proton pump inhibitor use, diabetes mellitus, rheumatoid arthritis, and vitamin D-deficiency. Any individual with a history of bisphosphonate exposure who presents with thigh or groin pain should be suspected of having an atypical fracture and should be evaluated to rule out an incomplete femur fracture. Bony pain in other locations should also be considered for evaluation of atypical fracture. Individuals presenting with an atypical fracture should also be assessed for symptoms and signs of fracture in the contralateral limb. Reevaluate the risk and/or benefit of continuing bisphosphonate therapy in these individuals and consider interruption of bisphosphonate therapy.


Description

Alendronate; cholecalciferol is a once-weekly combination of an oral bisphosphonate with a vitamin D3 supplement. The combination is indicated to increase bone mass and treat osteoporosis in both men and postmenopausal women. In postmenopausal adults, alendronate increases bone mass and reduces the incidence of fractures, including those of the hip and spine (vertebral compression fractures). Alendronate and other bisphosphonates are generally considered to be first-line therapy for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal adults and are often also used for treating or preventing glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. Alendronate; cholecalciferol once-weekly tablets help provide the equivalent of 7 days' worth of either 10 or 20 mcg (400 or 800 International Units) vitamin D per day to help meet recommended dietary intakes based on age. As with other bisphosphonate products, supplement the patient's calcium if dietary intake is inadequate and some patients may need additional vitamin D to provide adequate intake for their condition(s).

Mechanism Of Action

The bisphosphonates (e.g., alendronate) increase skeletal mineralization and thus improve bone density and reduce fracture risk. Insufficiency of vitamin D is associated with negative calcium balance, increased parathyroid hormone levels, bone loss, and increased risk of skeletal fracture. In severe cases, deficiency results in more severe hyperparathyroidism, hypophosphatemia, proximal muscle weakness, bone pain, and osteomalacia. Thus, adequate vitamin D and calcium intake are essential for the proper treatment of osteoporosis with bisphosphonate therapy.
Alendronate: Alendronate is a second-generation bisphosphonate that binds to bone hydroxyapatite and specifically inhibits the activity of osteoclasts, the bone-resorbing cells. Alendronate reduces bone resorption with no direct effect on bone formation, although the latter process is ultimately reduced because bone resorption and formation are coupled during bone turnover. Animal studies have indicated the following mode of action. At the cellular level, alendronate shows preferential localization to sites of bone resorption, specifically under osteoclasts. The osteoclasts adhere normally to the bone surface but lack the ruffled border that is indicative of active resorption. Alendronate does not interfere with osteoclast recruitment or attachment, but it does inhibit osteoclast activity. Studies in mice on the localization of radioactive alendronate in bone showed about 10-fold higher uptake on osteoclast surfaces than on osteoblast surfaces. Bones examined 6 and 49 days after radioactive alendronate administration in rats and mice, respectively, showed that normal bone was formed on top of the alendronate, which was incorporated inside the matrix. While incorporated in bone matrix, alendronate is not pharmacologically active. Thus, alendronate must be continuously administered to suppress osteoclasts on newly formed resorption surfaces. Histomorphometry in baboons and rats showed that alendronate treatment reduces bone turnover (i.e., the number of sites at which bone is remodeled). In addition, bone formation exceeds bone resorption at these remodeling sites, leading to progressive gains in bone mass.
Cholecalciferol (Vitamin D3): Adequate vitamin D serum concentrations are necessary for normal bone formation. If vitamin D concentrations are insufficient, a negative calcium balance, increased parathyroid hormone concentrations, bone loss, and increased skeletal fracture risk may occur. Vitamin D3 is produced in the skin by photochemical conversion of 7-dehydrocholesterol to previtamin D3 by ultraviolet light. This is followed by non-enzymatic isomerization to vitamin D3. In the absence of adequate sunlight exposure, vitamin D3 is an essential dietary nutrient. Vitamin D3 from the diet is absorbed into chylomicrons and converted to 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 in the liver. In the kidney, 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 is converted to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (calcitriol) under the influence of parathyroid hormone and hypophosphatemia. 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (calcitriol) increases intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphorus and regulates serum calcium concentrations, renal calcium, and phosphorus excretion, bone formation, and bone resorption.


Pharmacokinetics

Alendronate; cholecalciferol is administered orally.
 
Alendronate: Transient distribution into soft tissue is rapidly followed by redistribution to bone or urinary excretion. Alendronate is approximately 78% bound to protein in human plasma. There is no evidence that any metabolism takes place. Elimination from plasma is rapid, falling 95% within 6 hours of an IV dose. Approximately 50% of a single IV dose is excreted in the urine within 72 hours. Once alendronate is bound to bone, the half-life is more than 10 years. Inhibition of bone resorption diminishes after completion of treatment, suggesting that not all the alendronate sequestered in bone is biologically active. Estimations suggest that the amount of alendronate released from the skeleton daily after 10 years of daily dosing with 10 mg of alendronate is 25% of that absorbed from the GI tract. Bone resorption in individual remodeling units normally continues for approximately 2 weeks. Due to the long half-life of alendronate in the bone, weekly administration of alendronate should inhibit bone resorption and provide benefits on bone mass and strength to a similar extent as daily administration.
 
Cholecalciferol: Cholecalciferol enters the blood as part of chylomicrons. Vitamin D3 is rapidly and primarily distributed to the liver. Some vitamin D3 is stored in adipose tissue. In the liver, vitamin D3 is metabolized to 25-hydroxyvitamin D3, which is the major storage form. Circulating vitamin D3 is bound to vitamin D-binding protein. Vitamin D3 is hydroxylated by the liver to 25-hydroxyvitamin D3. In the kidney, 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 is further converted to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. Glucuronidation and further hydroxylation occur before elimination. The mean urinary excretion of radioactivity 48 hours after radioactive vitamin D3 administration was 2.4% of the dose. The mean fecal excretion was 4.9% of the dose. The mean half-life of vitamin D3 in the serum after a single oral dose of 70 mcg (2,800 International Units) is approximately 14 hours.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The alendronate provided in the Fosamax Plus D tablet is equally bioavailable as compared with the alendronate in the Fosamax 70 mg tablet. Also, the bioavailability of 70 or 140 mcg (2,800 or 5,600 International Units) of cholecalciferol is similar when administered as Fosamax Plus D or individually (without alendronate).
 
Alendronate: Administration is poor with oral bioavailability of less than 1%. Cations (e.g., calcium, magnesium) reduce bioavailability. If alendronate is taken within 2 hours of breakfast, its bioavailability becomes almost negligible. Orange juice or coffee can reduce bioavailability by about 60%. To achieve maximum possible bioavailability, alendronate must be taken in the fasting state and at least 2 hours before a standard breakfast.
 
Cholecalciferol: The mean time to the maximum vitamin D3 serum concentration after an oral dose of alendronate; cholecalciferol given 2 hours before a meal was 10.6 hours.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Administer after the patient has risen for the day. The patient should be sitting or standing. Do not administer alendronate; cholecalciferol to the patient while the patient is lying down.
Administer in the morning with a full glass (180 to 240 mL or 6 to 8 ounces) of plain water only and at least 30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or other medications of the day. At least 30 minutes should elapse after the dose before taking any other drugs or supplements.
To avoid esophageal irritation, the patient should not lie down for at least 30 minutes after the dose and until after their first food of the day.
Do not administer at bedtime or before the patient has risen for the day.
Missed doses: If a once-weekly dose is missed, instruct the patient to take the dose on the morning after they remember. They should not take 2 doses on the same day but should return to taking 1 dose once a week, as originally scheduled on their chosen day.
Ensure adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D to reduce the risk of treatment-related hypocalcemia.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

1 tablet/week PO with a maximum of 70 mg/week PO alendronate and 140 mcg/week (5,600 International Units/week) PO cholecalciferol.

Geriatric

1 tablet/week PO with a maximum of 70 mg/week PO alendronate and 140 mcg/week (5,600 International Units/week) PO cholecalciferol.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Fosamax Plus D 70mg-2800units Tablet

Fosamax Plus D 70mg-5600units Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustment is needed.

Renal Impairment

CrCl 35 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is necessary.
CrCl less than 35 mL/minute: Not recommended.

© 2026 Elsevier