=== Vorinostat (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3535)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Vorinostat is a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 400 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cholecystitis, dehydration, dysgeusia, hypokalemia, muscle cramps, weight loss, xerosis, asthenia, dizziness, fatigue, guillain-barre syndrome, headache, lethargy, syncope, anemia, gi bleeding, hemoptysis, thrombocytopenia, hyponatremia, peripheral edema, proteinuria, renal failure (unspecified), urinary retention, blurred vision, chest pain (unspecified), myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, stroke, thrombosis, vasculitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Dose-related thrombocytopenia and anemia have occurred during vorinostat therapy and may require dose modification (see Dosage) or discontinuation. Monitor complete blood counts, including platelet count, every 2 weeks during the first 2 months and monthly thereafter, or as clinically indicated. Emetic risk: Minimal/Low Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1

Brand Names
  - Zolinza

Dosage Forms
  - Zolinza 100mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        400 mg orally once daily with food until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity. If therapy intolerance occurs, reduce the dose to 300 mg orally once daily; if intolerance continues, reduce the dose to 300 mg daily on 5 consecutive days a week. The overall response rate (ORR) was 29.7% following treatment with vorinostat in patients with stage IB to IVB cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) consisting of mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome who had 2 or more systemic therapy failures in a multicenter, single-arm, phase IIb trial (n = 74). The median number of prior systemic therapies was 3 (range, 1 to 12 therapies); 95.9% of patients had previously received bexarotene. The ORR was defined as a complete or partial response based on an evaluation of skin disease using a modified version of the Severity Weighted Assessment Tool (mSWAT) and an evaluation of lymph node size and blood tumor burden. Progressive disease (PD) was defined as a 25% or greater increase in mSWAT score from baseline or a 50% or greater increase in lymph node size compared to baseline. The median duration of vorinostat treatment was 115.5 days (range, 2 to 480+ days). In patients with stage IIB or higher CTCL (n = 61), the ORR (primary end point) was 29.5% (95% CI, 18.5% to 42.6%). In these patients, the median time to response was 56 days (range, 28 to 171 days), the median duration of response was not reached but estimated to be 185 days (range, 34 to 441+ days), and the median time to progression was not reached but estimated to be 299 days (range, 85 to 470+ days). Pruritus was evaluated using a 10-point visual analog scale (VAS; zero points = no pruritus; 10 points = worst imaginable pruritus). In patients with a baseline VAS score of 3 or greater (n = 65), 32.3% had pruritus relief defined as a VAS score reduction of 3 or greater points or complete resolution of pruritus symptoms for at least 4 continuous weeks. Additionally, pruritus relief was experienced by 43.3% of patients who had a baseline VAS score of 7 to 10 (n = 30).
    Heading
    For the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) in patients who have progressive, persistent, or recurrent disease on or following 2 systemic therapies

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Dose-related thrombocytopenia and anemia have occurred during vorinostat therapy and may require dose modification (see Dosage) or discontinuation. Monitor complete blood counts, including platelet count, every 2 weeks during the first 2 months and monthly thereafter, or as clinically indicated. Severe thrombocytopenia has been reported with concomitant use of vorinostat and other histone deacetylases inhibitors, such as valproic acid (see Drug Interactions).
 
Patients with prior history of thromboembolic disease, including pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis, should be monitored closely during vorinostat therapy. Pulmonary embolism and DVT have been reported during vorinostat therapy; monitor patients closely for any signs or symptoms of these events (see Adverse Reactions). Patients receiving coumarin-anticoagulant therapy should be monitored closely; prolonged prothrombin time (PT) and International Normalized Ration (INR) have been observed during vorinostat therapy (see Drug Interactions).
 
Pre-existing nausea and vomiting should be controlled prior to initiating vorinostat therapy. GI adverse effects including nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea have been reported during vorinostat therapy and may require antiemetic and antidiarrheal medication. Fluids and electrolytes should be replaced to prevent dehydration. Instruct patients to drink at least 2 L/day of fluids for adequate hydration during vorinostat therapy. Severe GI bleeding has been reported with concomitant use of vorinostat and other histone deacetylases inhibitors, such as valproic acid (see Drug Interactions).
 
Patients with diabetes mellitus or glucose intolerance should be monitored closely during vorinostat therapy due to reports of hyperglycemia during treatment. Adjustment of diet and/or therapy for glucose control may be necessary. Monitor blood glucose every 2 weeks during the first 2 months and monthly thereafter, or as clinically indicated.
 
Administer vorinostat cautiously to patients with congenital long QT syndrome and to patients taking anti-arrhythmic medicines or other drugs that lead to QT prolongation; QT prolongation has been observed during vorinostat therapy (see Adverse Reactions). Other drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with the occurrence of torsade de pointes, a life-threatening arrhythmia. Existent QT prolongation increases the risk of this arrhythmia. Baseline and periodic ECGs should be performed during vorinostat therapy. Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, or other electrolyte imbalance should be corrected prior to administration of vorinostat. Electrolyte monitoring, including potassium, magnesium and calcium should be done every 2 weeks during the first 2 months and monthly thereafter; consideration should be given to monitoring potassium and magnesium in symptomatic patients (e.g., patients with nausea, vomiting, fluid imbalance or cardiac symptoms).
 
Fetal harm can occur if vorinostat is given to a pregnant woman (FDA pregnancy risk category D). There are no adequate well-controlled trials of vorinostat in pregnant women. Results of animal studies indicate that vorinostat crosses the placenta and is found in fetal plasma at levels up to 50% of maternal concentrations. Dose-related fetal malformations were noted in animal studies. Warn females of child-bearing potential of the possible harm to the fetus if she should become pregnant while taking this drug.
 
It is unknown if vorinostat is excreted in breast milk. Because of potential risk to the infant, a decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or discontinue vorinostat taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.
 
The safety and efficacy of vorinostat have not been determined in children under 18 years of age.
 
Vorinostat has not been evaluated in patients with hepatic disease. Because vorinostat is predominantly metabolized by the liver, patients with hepatic impairment should be treated with caution.
 
Use care to avoid accidental exposure of skin or mucous membranes to the powder within vorinostat capsules; do not open or crush vorinostat capsules. If such contact occurs, rinse area thoroughly. Avoid ocular exposure to vorinostat powder. If exposure occurs, the eye should be rinsed immediately and thoroughly. Vorinostat has been associated with mutagenic effects in in vitro tests, including the Ames test, caused chromosomal aberrations in vitro in Chinese hamster ovary cells, and increased incidence of micro-nucleated erythrocytes in the Mouse Micronucleus Assay).
 
Intramuscular injections should not be given to patients with a platelet count < 50,000/mm3 who are receiving vorinostat. IM injections can cause bleeding, bruising, or hematomas in patients with thrombocytopenia.
 
Myelosuppressive effects of vorinostat can increase the risk of infection or bleeding; therefore, dental work should be delayed until blood counts have returned to normal. Patients, especially those with dental disease, should be instructed in proper oral hygiene, including caution in use of regular toothbrushes, dental floss, and toothpicks.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use vorinostat with caution in patients with hepatic impairment. A dose reduction at baseline is needed in patients with mild (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment (bilirubin 1 to 3 times ULN or AST greater than ULN); there is insufficient evidence to recommend a starting dose for patients with severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment (bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN) or hepatic failure.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    diarrhea, nausea/vomiting
    General Information
    Use vorinostat with caution in patients with pre-existing nausea/vomiting and diarrhea. Pre-existing nausea/vomiting and diarrhea should be controlled and hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia should be corrected prior to initiating vorinostat therapy. Fluids and electrolytes should be replaced to prevent dehydration.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Use vorinostat with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus. Hyperglycemia has occurred in patients receiving vorinostat therapy.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use vorinostat with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk.
    Headline
    thromboembolism
    General Information
    Use vorinostat with caution in patients with a history of thromboembolism. Pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis have been reported during vorinostat therapy; monitor for signs and symptoms, particularly in patients with a prior history of thromboembolic events.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Vorinostat may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are insufficient data on vorinostat use during human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. Animal studies indicate that vorinostat crosses the placenta and is present in fetal plasma at concentrations up to 50% of maternal concentrations. Fetal toxicity occurred in pregnant rats or rabbits that received a vorinostat dose approximately 0.5-times the human exposure based on AUC. Fetal toxicity in rats included decreased mean live fetal weights; incomplete ossifications of the skull, thoracic vertebra, and sternebra; and skeletal variations (e.g., cervical ribs, supernumerary ribs, vertebral count, and sacral arch variations). Reductions in mean live fetal weight and an elevated incidence of incomplete ossification of the metacarpals were observed in rabbits. Advise pregnant patients of the potential risk to the fetus.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with vorinostat. Vorinostat may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status within 7 days prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking vorinostat and for at least 6 months after the last dose. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during vorinostat treatment and for at least 3 months after the last dose. Vorinostat may cause female infertility based on data from animal studies.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking vorinostat and for at least 1 week after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of vorinostat or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breast-fed child, or their effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Vorinostat may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are insufficient data on vorinostat use during human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. Animal studies indicate that vorinostat crosses the placenta and is present in fetal plasma at concentrations up to 50% of maternal concentrations. Fetal toxicity occurred in pregnant rats or rabbits that received a vorinostat dose approximately 0.5-times the human exposure based on AUC. Fetal toxicity in rats included decreased mean live fetal weights; incomplete ossifications of the skull, thoracic vertebra, and sternebra; and skeletal variations (e.g., cervical ribs, supernumerary ribs, vertebral count, and sacral arch variations). Reductions in mean live fetal weight and an elevated incidence of incomplete ossification of the metacarpals were observed in rabbits. Advise pregnant patients of the potential risk to the fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking vorinostat and for at least 1 week after the last dose. There are no data on the presence of vorinostat or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breast-fed child, or their effects on milk production.

Interactions
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors increase the excretion of some electrolytes including potassium; electrolyte abnormalities such as hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Use caution when administering alfuzosin with vorinostat due to the potential for QT prolongation. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when amisulpride is administered with vorinostat. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin should be used cautiously with other medications which may prolong the QT interval including vorinostat.
Anagrelide: (Major) Do not use anagrelide and vorinostat together. Anagrelide has been associated with torsade de pointes and ventricular tachycardia and vorinostat is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Additionally, due to the thrombocytopenic effects of vorinostat, an additive risk of bleeding may occur in patients taking platelet inhibitors.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with vorinostat since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) If possible, drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval should be discontinued prior to initiating arsenic trioxide therapy. QT prolongation should be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and complete atrioventricular block have been reported. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with arsenic trioxide.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, such as vorinostat, coadministration may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if vorinostat must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Asenapine: (Major) Asenapine and vorinostat have been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering bedaquiline with vorinostat. Both drugs have been reported to prolong the QT interval. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and loop diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Loop diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with vorinostat. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors increase the excretion of some electrolytes including potassium; electrolyte abnormalities such as hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with vorinostat if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib causes concentration-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Vorinostat is also associated with QT prolongation.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with vorinostat due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Phenothiazines have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP). This risk is generally higher at elevated drugs concentrations of phenothiazines. Chlorpromazine is specifically associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP; case reports have included patients receiving therapeutic doses of chlorpromazine. Agents that prolong the QT interval, such as vorinostat, could lead to torsade de pointes when combined with a phenothiazine, and therefore are generally not recommended for combined use.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of cisapride with vorinostat is contraindicated.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin should be used cautiously with other medications which may prolong the QT interval including vorinostat.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
cloZAPine: (Major) It is unclear if concurrent use of other drugs known to cause neutropenia (e.g., antineoplastic agents) increases the risk or severity of clozapine-induced neutropenia. Because there is no strong rationale for avoiding clozapine in patients treated with these drugs, consider increased absolute neutrophil count (ANC) monitoring and consult the treating oncologist. Additionally, clozapine therapy may lead to S-T segment depression and flattening or inversion of T waves. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. In theory, coadministration could produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with vorinostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation during concurrent use of dasatinib and vorinostat. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desflurane: (Major) Vorinostat and halogenated anesthetics are associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously in combination.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) The risk of QT prolongation may be increased with coadministration of deutetrabenazine and vorinostat. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with quinidine.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Some antineoplastic agents have been reported to decrease the absorption of digoxin tablets due to their adverse effects on the GI mucosa; the effect on digoxin liquid is not known. The reduction in digoxin tablet absorption has resulted in plasma concentrations that are 50% of pretreatment levels and has been clinically significant in some patients. It is prudent to closely monitor patients for loss of clinical efficacy of digoxin while receiving antineoplastic therapy.
Disopyramide: (Major) Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with disopyramide.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and vorinostat is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with vorinostat. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Use donepezil with caution in combination with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Use donepezil with caution in combination with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and vorinostat is contraindicated. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving other agents that may prolong the QT interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with droperidol include vorinostat.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Eliglustat: (Major) Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with eliglustat include vorinostat.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with vorinostat. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with vorinostat. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and vorinostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Encorafenib is associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with vorinostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. Both entrectinib and vorinostat have been associated with QT prolongation.
eriBULin: (Major) Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. If eribulin and another drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as vorinostat, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of escitalopram and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and loop diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Loop diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering fingolimod concomitantly with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia. Vorinostat is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Flecainide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of flecainide and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluconacole and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation that should be used cautiously with vorinostat include fluphenazine. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of fluvoxamine and vorinostat. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Cases of QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as vorinostat. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and fostemsavir together with caution due to the potential for QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and loop diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Loop diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering vorinostat with gemifloxacin. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Gemifloxacin may also prolong the QT interval in some patients, with the maximal change in the QTc interval occurring approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of gemifloxacin; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and vorinostat together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and vorinostat is necessary. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with vorinostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving vorinostat. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Use granisetron with caution in combination with vorinostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. Both granisetron and vorinostat have been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Vorinostat and halogenated anesthetics are associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously in combination.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Caution is advisable when combining haloperidol concurrently with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving vorinostat. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Use caution and close monitoring during concurrent administration.
Iloperidone: (Major) Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; however, torsade de pointes (TdP) has not been reported. According to the manufacturer, since iloperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as vorinostat.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with vorinostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Both inotuzumab and vorinostat have been associated with QT interval prolongation.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Isoflurane: (Major) Vorinostat and halogenated anesthetics are associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously in combination.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Use itraconazole with caution in combination with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with vorinostat due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Vorinostat has been associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and vorinostat due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin should be used cautiously with other medications which may prolong the QT interval including vorinostat.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if lapatinib is administered with vorinostat. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with vorinostat due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving vorinostat. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and vorinostat due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lithium and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lofexidine: (Major) ECG monitoring is recommended if lofexidine is coadministered with vorinostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and loop diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Loop diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Loperamide should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with vorinostat. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and high doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Coadministration may further increase the risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Loperamide should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with vorinostat. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and high doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Coadministration may further increase the risk for QT prolongation and TdP.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with vorinostat due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Both drugs are associated with QT prolongation. (Major) The use of ritonavir could result in QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with ritonavir include vorinostat.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as vorinostat. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Methadone: (Major) The need to coadminister methadone with drugs known to prolong the QT interval should be done with extreme caution and a careful assessment of treatment risks versus benefits. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Laboratory studies, both in vivo and in vitro, have demonstrated that methadone inhibits cardiac potassium channels and prolongs the QT interval. Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with methadone.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors increase the excretion of some electrolytes including potassium; electrolyte abnormalities such as hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midostaurin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and vorinostat may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. Correct any electrolyte imbalance prior to starting vorinostat; monitor serum electrolytes during therapy. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received vorinostat in a clinical study and in a retrospective analysis; however, the QTc interval was not prolonged following a single 800-mg vorinostat dose in a randomized, 2-period, crossover study designed to assess the impact of vorinostat on ventricular repolarization in patients with advanced cancer.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mifepristone and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concurrent use of vorinostat and moxifloxacin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Moxifloxacin has also been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Additionally, post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including TdP, usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and vorinotat; significant prolongation of the QT interval may occur. Sudden death and QT prolongation have been reported in patients who received nilotinib therapy. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) The use of ritonavir could result in QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with ritonavir include vorinostat.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Therefore, caution is advised when administering olanzapine with drugs having an established causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with olanzapine.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Therefore, caution is advised when administering olanzapine with drugs having an established causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with olanzapine.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Therefore, caution is advised when administering olanzapine with drugs having an established causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with olanzapine.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with vorinostat. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorinostat with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor electrolytes and ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of vorinostat with oxaliplatin is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking vorinostat due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; TdP and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential.
Panobinostat: (Major) QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with panobinostat include vorinostat.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Use caution when using pasireotide in combination with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of pazopanib and other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as vorinostat, is not advised; pazopanib has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If pazopanib and vorinostat must be continued, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Pentamidine: (Major) Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Vorinostat should be used with caution if given with other agents that may prolong the QT interval including pentamidine.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with vorinostat include perphenazine. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with vorinostat include perphenazine. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Because of the potential for TdP, use of vorinostat with pimozide is contraindicated.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking vorinostat due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist and monitor for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Use posaconazole with caution in combination with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Procainamide: (Major) Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with procainamide.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation that should be used cautiously with vorinostat include prochlorperazine. Theoretically, prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with quinidine.
quiNINE: (Major) Concurrent use of quinine and vorinostat should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinine has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of TdP. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Use ranolazine with caution in combination with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving other QT prolonging agents. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with vorinostat due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Vorinostat has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with vorinostat due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Vorinostat has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with vorinostat. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Use risperidone and vorinostat together with caution due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Ritonavir: (Major) The use of ritonavir could result in QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with ritonavir include vorinostat.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Saquinavir: (Major) Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid administering saquinavir boosted with ritonavir concurrently with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as vorinostat. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of selpercatinib with vorinostat is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sertraline and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Vorinostat and halogenated anesthetics are associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously in combination.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving vorinostat due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate and vorinostat. Concomitant use may result in unpredictable effects, resulting in increased toxicities or a reduction in efficacy. Sodium phenylbutyrate and vorinostat are inhibitors of histone deacetylase (HDAC).
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate and vorinostat. Concomitant use may result in unpredictable effects, resulting in increased toxicities or a reduction in efficacy. Sodium phenylbutyrate and vorinostat are inhibitors of histone deacetylase (HDAC).
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Solifenacin has been associated dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsades de pointes (TdP) has been reported with post-marketing use, although causality was not determined. This should be taken into consideration when prescribing solifenacin to patients taking other drugs that are associated with QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with solifenacin include vorinostat.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with vorinostat due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Sorafenib is also associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if sunitinib is administered with vorinostat. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Consider ECG and electrolyte monitoring periodically during treatment if tacrolimus is administered with vorinostat. Tacrolimus may prolong the QT interval and cause torsade de pointes (TdP). Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Due to increased risk of QT interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), use caution if telavancin is administered with vorinostat. Both telavancin and vorinostat have been associated with QT prolongation.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). The manufacturer recommends avoiding concurrent use of tetrabenazine with other drugs known to prolong QTc. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with tetrabenazine.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is considered contraindicated for use along with agents that, when combined with a phenothiazine, may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of TdP, and/or cause orthostatic hypotension. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Because of the potential for TdP, use of thioridazine with vorinostat is contraindicated.
Tolterodine: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering tolterodine with vorinostat. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorinostat with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and loop diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Loop diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and corticosteroids together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Corticosteroids may cause electrolyte imbalances; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia and may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation that should be used cautiously with vorinostat include trifluoperazine. Theoretically, trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving vorinostat. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Major) Severe thrombocytopenia and GI bleeding have been reported during concomitant administration of vorinostat and valproic acid. Monitor platelet counts every 2 weeks for the first 2 months of vorinostat therapy, and then monthly or as clinically indicated.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with vorinostat due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. If vemurafenib and another drug that is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as vorinostat, must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider interventions to minimize the risk of progression to torsade de pointes (TdP), such as ECG monitoring and correcting electrolyte abnormalities, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Clarithromycin should be used cautiously with other medications which may prolong the QT interval including vorinostat.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering voriconazole with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Voriconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and warfarin together with caution; concomitant use may result in prolonged prothrombin time (PT) and International Normalized Ratio (INR) and an increased risk of bleeding. Monitor PT and INR more frequently if use of both drugs is required. Prolonged PT and INR have occurred in patients who received vorinostat in combination with coumarin-derivative anticoagulants.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and vorinostat should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: Adverse reaction data for vorinostat are reported from clinical trial results. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in one clinical trial cannot be directly compared to rates in another clinical trial and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. However, this information does provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be drug-related and for approximating occurrence rates.Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported during clinical trials of vorinostat include diarrhea (52.3%), nausea/vomiting (40.7%/15.1%), dysgeusia (27.9%), anorexia (24.4%), weight loss (20.9%), xerosis (dry mouth) (16.3%), constipation (15.1%), and decreased appetite (14%). Antiemetic and/or anti-diarrheal therapy may be required to manage vorinostat-induced effects. Dehydration may result from severe nausea/vomiting or diarrhea. Fluid and electrolytes should be replaced to prevent dehydration. During clinical trials it was recommended patients drink at least 2 L/day to maintain hydration.Constitutional symptoms of fatigue (52.3%) and chills (16.3%) were commonly reported during vorinostat clinical trials. The incidence of fatigue is increased at vorinostat doses > 400 mg/day.Hyperglycemia was reported as a lab abnormality in 69% (59/86) of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) patients treated with 400 mg/day during clinical trials; the adverse reaction of hyperglycemia was reported in 8.1% of CTCL patients. Only 4 of the reported lab abnormalities were severe (Grade 3).During vorinostat clinical trials, thrombocytopenia (25.6%) and anemia (14%) were commonly reported; severe (>= Grade 3) thrombocytopenia and anemia were reported in 5% and 2% of patients, respectively, during clinical trials. An increased incidence of anemia and severe thrombocytopenia is associated with vorinostat doses > 400 mg/day. Severe thrombocytopenia and GI bleeding have been reported with concomitant use of vorinostat and other HDAC inhibitors such as valproic acid. Monitor platelet count every 2 weeks for the first 2 months, and then monthly or as clinically indicated.QT prolongation has been reported in patients treated with vorinostat during clinical trials; a definitive study of the effect of vorinostat on the QTc has not been conducted. Three (3) of 86 patients treated with 400 mg/day had Grade 1 (> 450—470 msec) or Grade 2 (471—500 msec or increase of > 60 seconds above baseline) clinical adverse events related to a prolonged QTc interval. In a retrospective analysis of three phase I and two phase II trials, 116 patients had a baseline and at least 1 follow-up ECG. Four (4) patients had Grade 2 and 1 patient had Grade 3 (> 500 msec) QTc prolongation. In 49 non-cutaneous T-cell lymphoma patients from 3 clinical trials who had complete evaluation of QT interval, 2 had QTc measurements > 500 msec and 1 had a QTc prolongation of > 60 sec.Other adverse reactions reported during vorinostat clinical trials include muscle spasms (19.8%), alopecia (18.6%), increased creatinine levels (16.3%), dizziness (15.1%), peripheral edema (12.8%), headache (11.6%), pruritus (11.6%), cough (10.5%), upper respiratory infection (10.5%), and fever (10.5%). Proteinuria was detected as a lab abnormality in 38 of 74 patients tested (51.4%). The clinical significance of this finding is unknown.Pulmonary embolism was reported in 4.7% (4/86) of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) patients treated with vorinostat 400 mg/day during clinical trials. Deep venous thrombosis was reported in 1 CTCL patient. Squamous cell carcinoma was reported in 3.5% (3/86) CTCL patients.The frequency of some individual vorinostat adverse reactions were substantially higher in non-cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) patients. Vorinostat-related serious adverse events reported in the non-CTCL patients that were not observed in the CTCL patients include single events of blurred vision, asthenia, hyponatremia, tumor hemorrhage, Guillain-Barre syndrome, renal failure (unspecified), urinary retention, cough, hemoptysis, hypertension, and vasculitis.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anorexia, cholecystitis, constipation, dehydration, diarrhea, dysgeusia, hypokalemia, muscle cramps, nausea, vomiting, weight loss, xerosis
    General Information
    Adequately control pre-existing nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea before beginning vorinostat. Among 86 vorinostat recipients, 52.3% had grade 1 or 2 diarrhea, 37.2% had grade 1 or 2 nausea, and 3.5% had grade 3—5 nausea. Grade 1 or 2 vomiting was noted in 13.9%, and 1.2% had grade 3—5 vomiting. Antiemetic and/or anti-diarrheal therapy may be required to manage vorinostat-induced effects. If a patient is intolerant to therapy, dose reduction or drug discontinuation may be needed (see Dosage). Of the 86 patients, 10.5% required a dose modification of vorinostat due to adverse events such as decreased appetite, hypokalemia, nausea, and vomiting. Dehydration may result from severe nausea and vomiting or diarrhea. Replace fluid and electrolytes to prevent dehydration. During clinical trials, it was recommended that patients drink at least 2 L/day to maintain hydration. Also, correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia before vorinostat receipt. Carefully monitor electrolytes including potassium, magnesium and calcium every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of therapy and monthly thereafter. Further, consider monitoring potassium and magnesium in symptomatic patients such as those with nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fluid imbalance, or cardiac symptoms. Other grade 1 or 2 gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported during clinical trials of vorinostat include dysgeusia (27.9%), xerosis (dry mouth) (16.3%), and constipation (15.1%). Grade 1 or 2 weight loss was noted in 19.7% of patients, and grade 3—5 weight loss was noted in 1.2% of patients. Grade 1 or 2 anorexia was noted in 14—22.1% of patients, and grade 3—5 anorexia was noted in 1.2—2.3% of patients. Grade 1 or 2 muscle cramps (spasms) were noted in 17.5% of patients, and grade 3—5 muscle spasms were noted in 2.3% of patients. A single event of cholecystitis was reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholecystitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, dizziness, fatigue, Guillain-Barre syndrome, headache, lethargy, syncope
    General Information
    Among 86 vorinostat recipients for CTCL, 48.8% had grade 1 or 2 fatigue, 3.5% had grade 3—5 fatigue, 13.9% had grade 1 or 2 dizziness, and 1.2% had grade 3—5 dizziness. Grade 1 or 2 headache was noted in 11.6% of patients. Asthenia has been noted, and single events of spinal cord injury and syncope were reported. Further, a single event of Guillain-Barre syndrome was noted among patients without CTCL who received vorinostat. If a patient is intolerant to vorinostat, dose reduction or drug discontinuation may be needed (see Dosage). Vorinostat was discontinued in 9.3% of patients for various adverse events regardless of causality including spinal cord injury and lethargy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Guillain-Barre syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Vorinostat may cause hyperglycemia. Carefully monitor blood glucose every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of vorinostat receipt and monthly thereafter. Adjustment of diet and/or therapy for increased glucose may be necessary for patients with diabetes or prediabetes. Increased serum glucose was reported as an adverse event in 8.1% of 86 patients with CTCL who received 400 mg once daily of vorinostat. Of the 86 patients, 4.6% had a grade 3 severity laboratory abnormality report of increased serum glucose. The abnormality of any severity was noted in 59 of the 86 patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, GI bleeding, hemoptysis, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Vorinostat can cause dose-related thrombocytopenia and anemia. Of the 86 vorinostat recipients, 19.8% had grade 1 or 2 thrombocytopenia, and 5.8% had grade 3—5 thrombocytopenia. Grade 1 or 2 anemia was noted in 11.7% of patients whereas 2.3% had grade 3—5 anemia. Carefully monitor blood cell counts every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of therapy and monthly thereafter. If platelet counts and/or hemoglobin fall during vorinostat receipt, modify the dose or discontinue vorinostat (see Dosage). Of the 86 patients who received a 400 mg daily dose for CTCL, 10.5% required a dose modification of vorinostat due to adverse events such as thrombocytopenia. The frequencies of more severe thrombocytopenia and anemia were increased with vorinostat doses > 400 mg/day. Also, severe thrombocytopenia and GI bleeding have been reported with concomitant use of vorinostat and other HDAC inhibitors such as valproic acid.  Single events of tumor hemorrhage and hemoptysis were reported among patients without CTCL who received vorinostat.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hemoptysis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    QT prolongation has been reported in patients treated with vorinostat during clinical trials. Three of 86 patients (3.4%) treated with 400 mg/day had Grade 1 (> 450—470 msec) or Grade 2 (471—500 msec or increase of > 60 seconds above baseline) QTc prolongation. In a retrospective analysis of three phase I and two phase II trials, 116 patients had a baseline and at least 1 follow-up ECG. Four (3.4%) patients had Grade 2 and 1 patient (0.8%) had Grade 3 (> 500 msec) QTc prolongation. In 49 non-cutaneous T-cell lymphoma patients from 3 clinical trials who had complete evaluation of QT interval, 2 had QTc measurements > 500 msec, and 1 had a QTc prolongation of > 60 sec.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyponatremia, peripheral edema, proteinuria, renal failure (unspecified), urinary retention
    General Information
    Carefully monitor serum creatinine every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of therapy and monthly thereafter. If a patient is intolerant to vorinostat, dose reduction or drug discontinuation may be needed (see Dosage). Of the 86 patients who received a 400 mg daily dose for CTCL, 10.5% required a dose modification of vorinostat due to adverse events such as increased serum creatinine. In trials, patients were instructed to drink at least 2 L/day of fluids for adequate hydration; dehydration was reported as a serious drug-related adverse event. In the clinical trial, 16.3% had grade 1 or 2 increased creatinine concentrations, and 12.8% had grade 1 or 2 peripheral edema. Transient increases in serum creatinine were detected in 46.5% of the 86 patients. Of these laboratory abnormalities, 34 were NCI CTCAE Grade 1, 5 were Grade 2, and 1 was Grade 3. Single events of pelvi-ureteric obstruction and ureteric obstruction were noted. Vorinostat was discontinued in 9.3% of patients for various adverse events regardless of causality including increased serum creatinine. Among patients without CTCL who did not receive vorinostat, single events of renal failure (unspecified), hyponatremia, and urinary retention were reported. Proteinuria was detected as a lab abnormality in 51.4% of 74 patients. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    blurred vision, chest pain (unspecified), myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, stroke, thrombosis, vasculitis
    General Information
    Vorinostat may cause thromboembolism; be alert for signs and symptoms of events such as pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis, especially in patients with a history of thromboembolic events. Of 86 patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL), 4.7% had pulmonary embolism. Single events of deep venous thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and ischemic stroke were also reported. Vorinostat was discontinued in 9.3% of patients for various adverse events regardless of causality including ischemic stroke, chest pain (unspecified), deep vein thrombosis, and pulmonary embolism. Among patients without CTCL who received vorinostat, single events of blurred vision and vasculitis were reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      vasculitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    chills, cough, fever, infection, leukopenia, neutropenia, new primary malignancy
    General Information
    If a patient is intolerant to vorinostat, dose reduction or drug discontinuation may be needed (see Dosage). Of 86 patients who received a 400 mg daily dose for CTCL, 10.5% required a dose modification of vorinostat due to adverse events such as leukopenia and neutropenia. Vorinostat may cause a new primary malignancy or infection. Among the 86 vorinostat recipients, 3.5% had squamous cell carcinoma, 10.5% had grade 1 or 2 cough, 15.1% had grade 1 or 2 chills, 1.2% had grade 3 to 5 chills, 10.5% had grade 1 or 2 upper respiratory infection, 9.3% had grade 1 or 2 fever, and 1.2% had grade 3 to 5 fever. Single events of enterococcal infection, infection, lobar pneumonia, sepsis, streptococcal bacteremia, and T-cell lymphoma were noted.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    A single event of hypertension was noted among patients without CTCL who received vorinostat.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    angioedema, exfoliative dermatitis, pruritus
    General Information
    Of 86 patients who received vorinostat for CTCL, 10.4% had grade 1 or 2 pruritus, and 1.2% had grade 3—5 pruritus. A single event of exfoliative dermatitis was noted. Vorinostat was discontinued in 9.3% of patients for various adverse events regardless of causality including exfoliative dermatitis and angioneurotic edema (angioedema).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia
    General Information
    Among 86 vorinostat recipients for CTCL, 18.6% had alopecia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    gastrointestinal fistula, GI perforation, impaired wound healing
    General Information
    Impaired wound healing has been reported in patients recovering from bowel surgery who received vorinostat perioperatively. Anastomotic healing complications included gastrointestinal fistula, GI perforation, and abscess formation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      gastrointestinal fistula
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      GI perforation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      impaired wound healing
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal studies, vorinostat may cause female infertility.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Vorinostat is a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor. It is indicated for the treatment of cutaneous manifestations in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who have progressive, persistent or recurrent disease on or following 2 systemic therapies. Pulmonary embolism (PE) and deep vein thrombosis (DVT) have been reported with vorinostat therapy; monitor patients for signs and symptoms of PE/DVT.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mechanism of Action: Vorinostat is a potent histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor. Vorinostat inhibits HDAC1, HDAC2, HDAC3, and HDAC6 enzymes at nanomolar concentrations (IC50 < 86 nM). Histone deacetylases are the enzymes that catalyze the removal of acetyl groups from the lysine residues of proteins, including histones and transcription factors. Overexpression of HDACs or an abnormal recruitment of HDACs to oncogenic transcription factors is present in some cancer cells. This causes hypoacetylation of core nucleosomal histones resulting in a condensed chromatin structure and repression of gene transcription. Inhibition of HDAC activity produces an accumulation of acetyl groups on the histone lysine residues resulting in an open chromatin structure and transcriptional activation. In many different malignant cell lines, HDAC inhibitors have been shown to activate differentiation, inhibit the cell cycle, and induce apoptosis. In vivo, HDAC inhibitors have exhibited stimulation of the immune system and blockage of angiogenesis. The exact mechanism of the antineoplastic effect of HDAC inhibitors, including vorinostat, has not been determined. However, induction of histone hyperacetylation and modulation of gene transcription are thought to be primarily responsible for HDAC inhibitor activity.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The extent of oral absorption of vorinostat as well as rate of absorption is increased when administered with a high-fat meal. A 33% increase in extent of vorinostat absorption is seen when vorinostat is administered with food vs in the fasted state (5.5 +/- 1.8 microM-hour vs 4.2 +/- 1.9 microM-hour, respectively); time to maximum concentration (Tmax) was increased by 2.5 hours when vorinostat is administered with food vs fasting (4 hours vs 1.5 hours, respectively). Although these changes are not expected to be clinically significant, it is recommended vorinostat be given with food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The effect of hepatic impairment on vorinostat exposure was evaluated in a pharmacokinetic (PK) study in patients with non-cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) cancers who had mild (total bilirubin level > 1—1.5X the upper limit of normal (ULN) OR total bilirubin level ULN), moderate (total bilirubin level of 1.5 to 3X ULN) hepatic impairment. Compared with patients who had normal liver function, the mean AUC increased by 50% in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment and by 66% in patients with severe hepatic impairment following a single, oral 400-mg vorinostat dose. In another PK analysis, multiple daily vorinostat doses were evaluated in patients with non-CTCL cancers and mild (400 mg/day), moderate (300 mg/day), and severe (200 mg/day) hepatic impairment. Grade 3 or 4 adverse event rates were similar in all patients; grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia was the most commonly reported toxicity in this analysis. Based on data from 42 patients with varying degrees of hepatic impairment, an initial dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. No manufacturer dosing recommendation is provided for patients with severe hepatic impairment; however, these patients have not been treated with vorinostat doses exceeding 200 mg/day.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Vorinostat has not been evaluated in patients with renal impairment. Renal excretion does not play a role in the elimination of vorinostat.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Vorinostat has not been evaluated in pediatric patients.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age does not appear to have meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of vorinostat.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender does not appear to have meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of vorinostat.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race does not appear to have meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of vorinostat.
  Text
  Vorinostat is administered orally. It is approximately 71% bound to plasma proteins.
 
Vorinostat is eliminated primarily by metabolism with < 1% of the dose recovered in the urine. Metabolism occurs in the liver via glucuronidation and via hydrolysis followed by beta-oxidation. Two inactive metabolites are measured in plasma: the O-glucuronide of vorinostat and 4-anilino-4-oxobutanoic acid. In vitro studies using human liver microsomes indicate negligible biotransformation by the hepatic cytochrome P450 system. The mean terminal half-life for vorinostat and the O-glucuronide metabolite is roughly 2 hours, while the half-life of the 4-anilino-4-oxobutanoic acid is roughly 11 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters:  none

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer vorinostat orally with food.
Swallow whole. Do not open or crush the capsules.
Patients should maintain adequate hydration during treatment. Instruct patient to drink at least 2 L/day (roughly eight 8 oz glasses) of fluids.
Avoid direct contact of powder within capsule with skin or mucous membranes.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    400 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    400 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline mild or moderate impairment (bilirubin level 1- to 3-times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or AST level greater than the ULN): Initial dose, 300 mg PO daily with food.
Baseline severe impairment (bilirubin level greater than 3-times the ULN): No manufacturer dosing recommendation provided; patients with severe hepatic impairment have not been treated with vorinostat doses exceeding 200 mg/day.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no initial dosage adjustments are needed. Renal excretion does not play a role in the elimination of vorinostat.
