=== Fenoldopam (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 716)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: intravenous; Common adult doses: 1.6 mcg/kg/minute IV.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): angina, chest pain (unspecified), heart failure, myocardial infarction, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, st-t wave changes, dizziness, flushing, headache, hypotension, fever, hyperhidrosis, muscle cramps

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Fenoldopam may produce a rapid decline in blood pressure, which occasionally may result in symptomatic hypotension (see Adverse Reactions). Therefore, blood pressure should be monitored closely during administration, especially during administration to patients in whom a precipitous drop in blood... NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

Brand Names
  - Corlopam

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.01 to 0.3 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion, initially. Titrate by 0.05 to 0.1 mcg/kg/minute every 15 minutes until goal blood pressure is attained. Initial infusion rates lower than 0.1 mcg/kg/minute with slow upward titration are associated with less reflex tachycardia. Max: 1.6 mcg/kg/minute. Max duration: 48 hours.
        Heading
        Infants, Children, and Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        0.2 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion, initially. Titrate by 0.3 to 0.5 mcg/kg/minute every 20 to 30 minutes until goal blood pressure is attained. Max: 0.8 mcg/kg/minute. Max duration: 4 hours. Higher doses worsen tachycardia without a further reduction in blood pressure.
        Heading
        Neonates weighing 2 kg or more
        Dosage Description
        0.2 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion, initially. Titrate by 0.3 to 0.5 mcg/kg/minute every 20 to 30 minutes until goal blood pressure is attained. Max: 0.8 mcg/kg/minute. Max duration: 4 hours. Higher doses worsen tachycardia without a further reduction in blood pressure.
    Heading
    For the short-term treatment of severe hypertension (e.g., hypertensive emergency)
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Dosage not established. 0.1 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion started immediately before surgical incision or onset of cardiopulmonary bypass and continued for 12 to 24 hours postoperatively has been used. Treatment was continued for up to 96 hours in patients who developed acute kidney injury. Dose increases to 0.2 and 0.3 mcg/kg/minute and reductions (for hypotension) to 0.05 and 0.025 mcg/kg/minute were allowed.
    Heading
    For nephrotoxicity prophylaxis† in patients undergoing cardiac surgery

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Fenoldopam may produce a rapid decline in blood pressure, which occasionally may result in symptomatic hypotension (see Adverse Reactions). Therefore, blood pressure should be monitored closely during administration, especially during administration to patients in whom a precipitous drop in blood pressure could be detrimental, such as those with active bleeding (e.g., intracranial bleeding), an acute stroke, or a history of cerebral infarction due to cerebrovascular disease. The effect of fenoldopam in the presence of increased intracranial pressure has not been studied. In pediatric patients, fenoldopam was only administered to patients with an indwelling intraarterial line.Fenoldopam causes a dose-dependent sinus tachycardia which is inversely proportional to the decrease in blood pressure. An elevation in heart rate could increase myocardial oxygen demand and exacerbate symptoms in patients with heart failure, coronary artery disease or a history of angina. Therefore, fenoldopam should be used cautiously in patients with cardiac disease. In patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension, intravenous fenoldopam increases heart rate and portal pressure. Thus, fenoldopam should also be used cautiously in patients with hepatic disease associated with portal hypertension.Fenoldopam decreases serum potassium concentrations, which may occasionally result in hypokalemia (see Adverse Reactions). Hypokalemia may exacerbate cardiac arrhythmias or precipitate conduction abnormalities in a patient with cardiac disease. Potassium concentrations should be monitored closely in patients with cardiac disease. In addition, potassium replacement should be initiated in patients with pre-existing hypokalemia prior to administration of fenoldopam.Fenoldopam causes a dose-dependent increase in intraocular pressure (see Adverse Reactions); therefore, the drug should be used with caution in patients with glaucoma and/or increased intraocular pressure.Clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients receiving fenoldopam. However, dosage should be initiated conservatively, at the lower end of the adult dosage range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, cardiac and renal function in the elderly.Fenoldopam is classified as pregnancy category B. In reproductive studies in rats and rabbits, no evidence of impaired fertility or fetal harm was observed with administration of large dosages of fenoldopam. However, there are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Fenoldopam should only be used in pregnancy if clearly needed.It is not known if fenoldopam is excreted in human milk. Caution is advised if fenoldopam is administered to a woman who is breast-feeding.Fenoldopam is indicated for acute short-term (up to 4 hours) reduction in blood pressure for hospitalized infants and children; in studies the drug was only administered by continuous infusion using an intraarterial line. Antihypertensive effects of fenoldopam have been studied in infants and children from the ages of less than 1 month old (and at least 2 kg or full-term) up to 12 years old. Clinical studies of fenoldopam did not include subjects ages 12—16 years of age to determine if they respond differently from younger subjects or adults. The pharmacokinetics of fenoldopam are independent of age when corrected for body weight. Dosage selection for patients 12—16 years of age should consider the patient's clinical condition and concomitant drug therapy.Corlopam® injection contains sodium metabisulfite which may cause allergic reactions in some people. This product should be used with caution in patients with known sulfite hypersensitivity. Patients with asthma are more likely than non-asthmatic patients to experience this sensitivity reaction.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    asthma, sulfite hypersensitivity
    General Information
    Certain formulations of fenoldopam contain sodium metabisulfite. Sodium metabisulfite is a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions, including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe episodes in certain susceptible people, such as patients with sulfite hypersensitivity or asthma.
    Headline
    glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure
    General Information
    In a clinical study of 12 patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension (mean baseline intraocular pressure was 29.2 mm Hg with a range of 22 to 33 mm Hg), fenoldopam at escalating doses ranging from 0.05 to 0.5 mcg/kg/minute over 3.5 hours caused a dose-dependent increased intraocular pressure (IOP). At the peak effect, the IOP was raised by a mean of 6.5 mm Hg (range -2 to +8.5 mm Hg, corrected for placebo effect). Upon discontinuation of fenoldopam, the IOP returned to baseline values within 2 hours.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Titrate fenoldopam doses cautiously in geriatric patients, starting at the low end of the dosage range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function and concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Clinical experience has not identified differences in fenoldopam responses between the elderly and younger patients.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are insufficient data regarding the use of fenoldopam in pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Severe hypertension can result in maternal stroke, pulmonary edema, myocardial ischemia, or death of the mother or fetus. Animal studies have demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility or fetal harm at the highest oral fenoldopam doses tested.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise women against breast-feeding during treatment with fenoldopam. There are no data on the presence of fenoldopam in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed child, or the effects on milk production. Fenoldopam is present in rat milk. Previous American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommendations considered other antihypertensive agents including enalapril, hydralazine, labetalol, methyldopa, and propranolol as usually compatible with breast-feeding.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are insufficient data regarding the use of fenoldopam in pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Severe hypertension can result in maternal stroke, pulmonary edema, myocardial ischemia, or death of the mother or fetus. Animal studies have demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility or fetal harm at the highest oral fenoldopam doses tested.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise women against breast-feeding during treatment with fenoldopam. There are no data on the presence of fenoldopam in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed child, or the effects on milk production. Fenoldopam is present in rat milk. Previous American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommendations considered other antihypertensive agents including enalapril, hydralazine, labetalol, methyldopa, and propranolol as usually compatible with breast-feeding.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of vasodilators on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of vasodilators on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as the vasodilators, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving antihypertensive agents should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. If possible, patients should not take their antihypertensive medication 24 hours before receiving amifostine. Patients who can not stop their antihypertensive agents should not receive amifostine or be closely monitored during the infusion and, possibly, given lower doses.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of apomorphine and vasodilators can cause greater decreases in blood pressure than use of apomorphine alone. Patients receiving a combination of apomorphine and vasodilators should be closely monitored for hypotension and orthostasis.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
ARIPiprazole: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Atenolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Beta-blockers: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Betaxolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Bisoprolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Carteolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Carvedilol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of dexmedetomidine and vasodilators could lead to additive hypotension and bradycardia; use together with caution. In clinical trials where vasodilators were co-administered with dexmedetomidine an additive pharmacodynamic effect was not observed. However, both vasodilators and dexmeditomidine may cause symptomatic hypotension. If hypotension occurs, dose reduction of one or both drugs may be needed and supportive measures instituted.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Further reductions in blood pressure may occur when vasodilators are combined with epoprostenol.
Esmolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) In general, haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with vasodilators may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Vasodilators may have additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when MAOIs are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with vasodilators.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Labetalol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Landiolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Levobunolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Lofexidine: (Major) Because the central alpha-2 agonist effects of lofexidine can cause hypotension and orthostasis, the drug should be avoided, if possible, in combination with other medications that can decrease blood pressure such as systemic vasodilators. If coadministration is required, blood pressure should be monitored, particularly after dose changes of either agent. Adjustments should be made as clinically indicated.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Metoclopramide or other peripherally acting dopamine antagonists may inhibit the blood pressure effects of fenoldopam. In one in vitro study, the vasodilatory response to fenoldopam was attenuated by pretreatment with metoclopramide, a nonselective dopamine antagonist.
Metoprolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Nadolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nebivolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially peripheral vasodilators. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise. The interaction is harmless unless niacin augments the hypotensive actions of clonidine.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by vasodilators. Also vasodilators can antagonize the effectiveness of oxymetazoline. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotenive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and fenoldopam who are susceptible to hypotension.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when MAOIs are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with vasodilators.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Pindolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Propranolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with vasodilators. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Vasodilators, such as fenoldopam, can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects. Monitor patients carefully during times of coadministration.
Sotalol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sympathomimetics: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Timolol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fenoldopam with beta-blockers due to the risk of hypotension. If used together, monitor blood pressure frequently. Beta-blockers may inhibit the sympathetic reflex response to fenoldopam.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Monitor for hypotension during concomitant use of tizanidine and fenoldopam. Both medications may lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vasodilators and tranylcypromine due to the risk of additive hypotension. Potential for this interaction persists for up to 10 days after discontinuation of tranylcypromine (or 4 to 5 half-lives after discontinuation of the vasodilator). If a medication-free interval is not feasible, initiate therapy at the lowest appropriate dose and monitor blood pressure closely.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially peripheral vasodilators. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise. The interaction is harmless unless niacin augments the hypotensive actions of clonidine.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  In controlled clinical trials in adult patients with severe hypertension, adverse reactions associated with fenoldopam use that were reported in more than 5% of patients included flushing (7—11%), headache (11—36%), hypotension, and nausea/vomiting (20%). All of these adverse events appeared to be dose-related. Fenoldopam causes a dose-dependent fall in blood pressure. Occasionally, symptomatic hypotension has been reported; therefore, blood pressure should be monitored closely during therapy, especially in patients with active hemorrhage, an acute stroke, or a history of cerebral infarction. In controlled clinical trials, 3% of patients discontinued fenoldopam therapy due to excessive declines in blood pressure. Fenoldopam also causes sinus tachycardia which is inversely proportional to the decrease in blood pressure. Tachycardia could theoretically contribute to angina or worsened heart failure. Tachycardia is dose-related, particularly with IV infusion rates above 0.1 mcg/kg/min. Tachycardia in adults diminishes over time, but remains substantial at higher doses. Tachycardia in pediatric patients at doses > 0.8 mcg/kg/min may persist for at least for 4 hours. During initial controlled trials; no symptomatic ischemic events were reported; however, asymptomatic ST-T wave changes (primarily T-wave inversion) were documented in 6—33% of patients. In pediatric patients, the most common adverse events reported during short-term administration in controlled trials (30 minutes) were hypotension and tachycardia. However, because of the acute exposure, there is limited experience with defining adverse events in children. The long-term effects of fenoldopam on growth and development have not been studied.Other adverse effects reported during fixed-dose studies that occurred more frequently in fenoldopam-treated patients than in placebo-treated patients included injection site reaction (7.2%), dizziness (4.8—10%), back pain (4.8%), abdominal pain (4%), hypokalemia (4%), diaphoresis (1.6%), and anxiety (2.4%). Decreases in serum potassium concentration, occasionally to < 3 mEq/L, were generally observed after less than 6 hours of fenoldopam infusion. It is not clear if the hypokalemia was due to natriuresis with enhanced potassium-sodium exchange or a direct drug effect; however, serum potassium concentrations should be monitored closely.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
    Headline
    angina, chest pain (unspecified), heart failure, myocardial infarction, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, ST-T wave changes
    General Information
    Fenoldopam causes a dose-related sinus tachycardia (0.5% to 5%), particularly with infusion rates above 0.1 mcg/kg/minute in adults and 0.8 mcg/kg/minute in pediatric patients; it may diminish in adults with continued use at doses less than 0.1 mcg/kg/minute. Electrocardiogram T-wave inversion (ST-T wave changes) was reported in 6% of fenoldopam-treated patients during clinical trials, while extrasystoles, palpitations, heart failure, ischemic heart disease, myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, and chest pain (unspecified) were reported in 0.5% to 5% of patients. Cardiogenic shock, ST-segment depression, and decreased oxygen saturation have been reported with postmarketing use of fenoldopam.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ST-T wave changes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea (12%), vomiting (6%), and abdominal pain (0.5% to 5%) were reported in fenoldopam-treated patients during clinical trials. Abdominal distention has been reported with postmarketing use of fenoldopam.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hypokalemia
    General Information
    Hypokalemia, increased blood glucose, elevated hepatic enzymes (i.e., increased transaminases), and increased lactate dehydrogenase were reported in 0.5% to 5% of fenoldopam-treated patients during clinical trials. Monitor serum potassium concentrations; hypokalemia has been observed after less than 6 hours of fenoldopam infusion. Hypokalemia may be due to natriuresis with enhanced potassium-sodium exchange or a direct drug effect.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, flushing, headache, hypotension
    General Information
    Headache (24%), dizziness (0.5% to 5%), flushing (more than 5%), and hypotension (more than 5%) were reported in fenoldopam-treated patients during clinical trials and may occur secondary to vasodilation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    fever, hyperhidrosis, muscle cramps
    General Information
    Hyperhidrosis, fever, and muscle cramps were reported in 0.5% to 5% of fenoldopam-treated patients during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    oliguria
    General Information
    Oliguria, as well as increases in blood urea and serum creatinine, were reported in 0.5% to 5% of fenoldopam-treated patients during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      oliguria
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anxiety, insomnia
    General Information
    Nervousness/anxiety and insomnia were reported in 0.5% to 5% of fenoldopam-treated patients during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    injection site reaction
    General Information
    Injection site reaction was reported in 7% of fenoldopam-treated patients during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Fenoldopam is an intravenous dopamine1 agonist indicated for in-hospital, short-term (up to 48 hours) treatment of severe hypertension when rapid, but quickly reversible, emergency reduction of blood pressure is clinically indicated, including malignant hypertension with deteriorating end-organ function. Transition to oral therapy with another agent can begin at any time after blood pressure is stable during fenoldopam infusion. Fenoldopam is not generally considered a first-line agent for hypertensive emergencies. It improves renal perfusion and may be beneficial in patients with impaired renal function; however, clinically significant reductions in death or renal replacement therapy (RRT) in patients at risk for acute renal failure has not been demonstrated. Data do not consistently suggest fenoldopam reduces the incidence of acute kidney injury or prevents the need for RRT in cardiac surgery patients.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Fenoldopam is a rapid-acting, selective dopamine1 agonist that causes vasodilation of peripheral arteries and renal and mesenteric vasculature. Activation of dopaminergic receptors on the proximal and distal renal tubules inhibits sodium reabsorption, resulting in diuresis and natriuresis.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    Onset is rapid, with steady-state fenoldopam plasma concentrations achieved in about 20 minutes; plasma concentrations at steady-state are proportional to infusion rates at dosages between 0.01 to 1.6 mcg/kg/minute. Fenoldopam produces dose-related reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure. In adults, blood pressure reduction at 15 minutes after the start of an infusion represents 50% to 100% of the blood pressure response at 1 hour. In adult patients with hypertensive emergency who received infusion rates of 0.3 mcg/kg/minute, systolic and diastolic blood pressures were reduced by about 22 and 23 mmHg, respectively, at 1 hour. A single study suggests that there is no greater blood pressure response to infusion rates of 0.8 mcg/kg/minute than to 0.4 mcg/kg/minute in adult patients. There is some evidence of partial tolerance after 48 hours of administration, although a substantial effect still persists. When infusions are stopped, blood pressure gradually returns to pretreatment values, with no evidence of rebound.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The clearance of fenoldopam is not altered in adults with severe hepatic failure.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The clearance of fenoldopam is not altered in adults with end-stage renal disease on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). The effects of hemodialysis on the pharmacokinetics of fenoldopam have not been evaluated.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Infants and Children
Steady-state fenoldopam plasma concentrations are proportional to the dose (0.05 to 3.2 mcg/kg/minute) in infants and children. Clearance and half-life are 3 L/kg/hour and 3 to 5 minutes, respectively. Changes in blood pressure and heart rate occur as early as 5 minutes after initiation. Effects increase with time for 15 to 25 minutes and are still detected after an average of 4 hours of fenoldopam infusion. Blood pressure and heart rate approach baseline within 30 minutes after drug discontinuation.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of fenoldopam were not influenced by age in adults with a hypertensive emergency.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of fenoldopam were not influenced by gender in adults with a hypertensive emergency.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of fenoldopam were not influenced by race in adults with a hypertensive emergency.
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Fenoldopam is administered intravenously. Conjugation in the liver occurs via methylation, glucuronidation, and sulfation with no participation of cytochrome P450 isoenzymes. About 90% of fenoldopam is eliminated in the urine, and 10% is eliminated in feces. Only 4% of a dose is excreted unchanged. The elimination half-life of fenoldopam is approximately 5 minutes.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Dilute the contents of the ampules or vials with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose Injection before infusion to a final concentration of 40 mcg/mL in adults and 60 mcg/mL in pediatric patients.
Oral antihypertensive agents can be added during fenoldopam infusion or after discontinuation.
Storage: Diluted solution may be stored for up to 4 hours at room temperature or 24 hours refrigerated.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1.6 mcg/kg/minute IV.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1.6 mcg/kg/minute IV.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    0.8 mcg/kg/minute IV.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    0.8 mcg/kg/minute IV.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    0.8 mcg/kg/minute IV.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Weighing 2 kg or more: 0.8 mcg/kg/minute IV.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
