=== Esketamine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5130)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Esketamine is the S-enantiomer of racemic ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist.

Routes: nasal; Common adult doses: 84 mg intranasally twice per week during the induction phase; 84 mg intranasally once per week during the maintenance phase.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, dysgeusia, headache, hypoesthesia, impaired cognition, insomnia, lethargy, loss of consciousness, memory impairment, myasthenia, psychomotor impairment, tremor, vertigo, bradycardia, hypertension, hypertensive crisis, hypotension, sinus tachycardia, anxiety, confusion, dissociation, dysphoria, euphoria, hallucinations, dental pain, physiological dependence, psychological dependence, tolerance

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Esketamine is also contraindicated in patients with a history of ketamine hypersensitivity, as esketamine is the S-enantiomer of the racemic mixture in ketamine.

Brand Names
  - Spravato

Dosage Forms
  - SPRAVATO 56mg Dose Kit Nasal Spray
  - Spravato 84mg Dose Kit Nasal Spray

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: Esketamine is not FDA-approved as an anesthetic agent, and safety and effectiveness of this drug as an anesthetic agent have not been established.
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of treatment-resistant depression as monotherapy or in conjunction with an oral antidepressant
      Routes
        Heading
        Nasal dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          56 mg or 84 mg intranasally twice weekly for weeks 1 through 4, then 56 mg or 84 mg intranasally once weekly for weeks 5 through 8, and then 56 mg or 84 mg intranasally once weekly or every 2 weeks; individualize dosing frequency to the least frequent dosing to maintain remission. The effectiveness of this drug in preventing suicide or in reducing suicidal ideation or behavior has not been demonstrated. Use does not preclude the need for hospitalization if clinically warranted, even if patients experience improvement after the initial dose.
      Heading
      for the treatment of depressive symptoms in persons with major depressive disorder and acute suicidal ideation or behavior in conjunction with an oral antidepressant
      Routes
        Heading
        Nasal dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          84 mg intranasally twice weekly for 4 weeks, initially. May reduce dose to 56 mg intranasally twice weekly as tolerated. Evaluate evidence of therapeutic benefit after 4 weeks to determine need for continued therapy. Use beyond 4 weeks has not been formally evaluated in these patients. The effectiveness of this drug in preventing suicide or in reducing suicidal ideation or behavior has not been demonstrated. Use does not preclude the need for hospitalization if clinically warranted, even if patients experience improvement after the initial dose.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of depression

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Esketamine is also contraindicated in patients with a history of ketamine hypersensitivity, as esketamine is the S-enantiomer of the racemic mixture in ketamine.
    Headline
    aneurysm, arteriovenous malformation, cardiovascular disease, hypertensive encephalopathy, intracerebral hemorrhage
    General Information
    Esketamine is contraindicated in people with a history of aneurysm (e.g., aneurysmal vascular disease including thoracic and abdominal aorta, intracranial, and peripheral arterial vessels), arteriovenous malformation, or a history of intracerebral hemorrhage. Esketamine use can increase systolic and/or diastolic blood pressure at all recommended doses, and the drug is contraindicated in people for whom an increase in blood pressure or intracranial pressure poses a serious risk. In patients with a history of hypertensive encephalopathy, more intensive monitoring, including more frequent blood pressure and symptom assessments, are warranted due to an increased risk for developing encephalopathy with even small increases in blood pressure. Patients with other cerebrovascular or cardiovascular disease/conditions should be carefully assessed to determine whether the potential benefits of esketamine outweigh the risks before initiating treatment. Blood pressure elevations peak about 40 minutes after esketamine administration and last about 4 hours. A substantial increase in blood pressure can occur after any dose, even if smaller blood pressure effects were observed during previous administrations. Blood pressure should be assessed before esketamine administration. In patients with elevated blood pressure before treatment with esketamine (e.g., generally higher than 140/90 mmHg), consider delaying treatment based on the benefits and risks of the individual patient. Blood pressure should be monitored for at least 2 hours post-treatment, with an assessment at about 40 minutes post-dose and subsequently, as clinically warranted, until values decline. If blood pressure remains high, obtain prompt assistance from a provider experienced in blood pressure management. In patients who experience symptoms of hypertensive crisis or hypertensive encephalopathy, refer for emergency care. Also closely monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of esketamine and psychostimulants or MAOIs.
    Headline
    adolescents, children, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    The safety and effectiveness of esketamine nasal spray has not been established in pediatric patients less than 18 years of age. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials of antidepressants (n = 4,500 pediatrics and 77,000 adults), there was an increased risk for suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, adolescents, and young adults 24 years of age and younger receiving an antidepressant versus placebo, with considerable variation in the risk of suicidality among drugs. The difference in absolute risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across different indications was highest in those with major depression. The need for an antidepressant in children, adolescents, or young adults for any use must be weighed against the risk of suicidality; it is unknown if this risk extends to long-term use. All patients should be monitored for symptom worsening or suicidality, especially at treatment initiation or after dose changes. Caregivers and/or patients should immediately notify the prescriber of changes in behavior or suicidal ideation. A change to the treatment regimen, including discontinuation of esketamine and/or the concomitant oral antidepressant, may be necessary in patients with emerging suicidality or worsening depression.
    Headline
    dissociation, psychotic disorder
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of nasal esketamine, dissociative symptoms (e.g., derealization, depersonalization) and perceptual changes (e.g., distortion of time and space, illusions) were commonly reported psychological effects. Esketamine may also cause dysphoria, disorientation (confusion), and hallucinations. Because of the risks of dissociation, patients must be monitored by a health care provider for at least 2 hours after each treatment session, followed by an assessment to determine when the patient is considered clinically stable and ready to leave the health care setting. Due to the potential for esketamine to induce dissociative effects and psychotic symptoms, patients with a history of psychosis or a psychotic disorder should be carefully evaluated before receiving esketamine. Treatment should only be initiated if the benefit outweighs the risks in these patient populations.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, CNS depression, driving or operating machinery, respiratory depression
    General Information
    Esketamine commonly causes sedation and CNS depression, which may be delayed or prolonged, and can impair attention, judgment, thinking, reaction speed, and motor skills. Because of the risks of CNS sedation, dissociation, and respiratory depression, patients must be monitored for changes in respiratory status for at least 2 hours (including pulse oximetry) at each treatment session, followed by an assessment to determine when the patient is considered clinically stable and ready to leave the health care setting. Short-term cognitive impairment has occurred following administration of a single therapeutic dose of nasal esketamine, and long-term cognitive and memory impairment has occurred after repeated misuse or abuse of ketamine, a racemic mixture containing esketamine. In 1-year and 3-year long-term, open-label clinical trials in adults, the effect of esketamine nasal spray on cognitive functioning remained stable over time as evaluated by the Cogstate computerized battery and Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised. Instruct patients to avoid driving or operating machinery or engaging in other activities requiring coordination and concentration until the day following esketamine administration after a restful sleep., and that the patient will need to make arrangement for transportation home following treatment with esketamine nasal spray. Also, closely monitor patients where there is coadministration with other CNS depressants.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Esketamine is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure because the drug has not been studied in this population. Patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B) have a higher mean AUC and half-life than those with normal hepatic function; therefore, a longer duration of monitoring for adverse reactions from esketamine administration may be required in this population.
    Headline
    substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    Use careful consideration prior to treatment with esketamine in people with a known history of a substance abuse disorder, including alcohol use disorder. If esketamine therapy is required in patients with a history of substance abuse or dependence, closely monitor for signs of abuse or dependence. Assess the risk of abuse or misuse prior to prescribing and monitor all patients for signs of abuse while on esketamine treatment. Esketamine has the potential for abuse, misuse, diversion, psychological dependence, and physiological dependence. Physical dependence has been reported with prolonged use of ketamine, a racemic compound containing esketamine.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Esketamine is not recommended during pregnancy. There are insufficient human data to establish whether esketamine use is associated with a risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse fetal outcomes; however, based on animal data, esketamine may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. If pregnancy occurs during treatment, discontinue the drug and counsel the patient on the potential fetal risk. Published studies in pregnant primates demonstrate that the administration of drugs that block N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors during the period of peak brain development increases neuronal apoptosis (cell death) in the developing brain of the offspring. There are no data on pregnancy exposures in primates corresponding to periods prior to the third trimester in humans. In an embryo-fetal reproduction study in rabbits, skeletal malformations were noted at doses toxic to the pregnant animal when ketamine was intranasally administered, with a No Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL) at estimated esketamine exposures 0.3 times the exposures at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 84 mg/day. In addition, intranasal administration of esketamine during pregnancy and lactation at exposures similar to those at the MRHD resulted in a delay in sensorimotor development in pups during the preweaning period and a decrease in motor activity in the post-weaning period. The risks of untreated depression during pregnancy should also be considered when making treatment decisions. Data suggest that patients who discontinue antidepressant therapy during pregnancy are at increased risk of depressive relapse compared with those who continue treatment. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes related to antidepressant exposures, including esketamine nasal spray. Healthcare providers are encouraged to assist patients in registering by contacting the National Pregnancy Registry for Antidepressants at 1-844-405-6185 or online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-and-researchprograms/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants/.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with esketamine. Esketamine may cause fetal harm. Consider pregnancy planning and prevention in those of reproductive potential during treatment with esketamine.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking esketamine. Esketamine is present in human milk; however, there are no data on the effects of esketamine on the breastfed child or on milk production. Published juvenile animal studies have shown that administration of NMDA receptor antagonists, such as ketamine, during periods of rapid brain growth or synaptogenesis results in widespread neuronal and oligodendrocyte cell loss in the developing brain and alterations in synaptic morphology and neurogenesis. The window of vulnerability to these neurotoxic changes is believed to correlate with exposures in the third trimester of gestation through the first several months of life, but may extend out to approximately 3 years of age in humans.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Esketamine is not recommended during pregnancy. There are insufficient human data to establish whether esketamine use is associated with a risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse fetal outcomes; however, based on animal data, esketamine may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. If pregnancy occurs during treatment, discontinue the drug and counsel the patient on the potential fetal risk. Published studies in pregnant primates demonstrate that the administration of drugs that block N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors during the period of peak brain development increases neuronal apoptosis (cell death) in the developing brain of the offspring. There are no data on pregnancy exposures in primates corresponding to periods prior to the third trimester in humans. In an embryo-fetal reproduction study in rabbits, skeletal malformations were noted at doses toxic to the pregnant animal when ketamine was intranasally administered, with a No Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL) at estimated esketamine exposures 0.3 times the exposures at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 84 mg/day. In addition, intranasal administration of esketamine during pregnancy and lactation at exposures similar to those at the MRHD resulted in a delay in sensorimotor development in pups during the preweaning period and a decrease in motor activity in the post-weaning period. The risks of untreated depression during pregnancy should also be considered when making treatment decisions. Data suggest that patients who discontinue antidepressant therapy during pregnancy are at increased risk of depressive relapse compared with those who continue treatment. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes related to antidepressant exposures, including esketamine nasal spray. Healthcare providers are encouraged to assist patients in registering by contacting the National Pregnancy Registry for Antidepressants at 1-844-405-6185 or online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-and-researchprograms/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants/.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking esketamine. Esketamine is present in human milk; however, there are no data on the effects of esketamine on the breastfed child or on milk production. Published juvenile animal studies have shown that administration of NMDA receptor antagonists, such as ketamine, during periods of rapid brain growth or synaptogenesis results in widespread neuronal and oligodendrocyte cell loss in the developing brain and alterations in synaptic morphology and neurogenesis. The window of vulnerability to these neurotoxic changes is believed to correlate with exposures in the third trimester of gestation through the first several months of life, but may extend out to approximately 3 years of age in humans.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and diphenhydramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and doxylamine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and diphenhydramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and a tricyclic antidepressant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Amobarbital: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Amoxapine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and amoxapine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Amphetamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and an amphetamine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as amphetamines, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and an amphetamine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as amphetamines, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Amphetamines: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and an amphetamine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as amphetamines, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Apomorphine: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as apomorphine, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and aripiprazole for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Armodafinil: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and armodafinil. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as armodafinil, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and asenapine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure. (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure. (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Atropine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and atropine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and atropine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Azelastine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and azelastine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and azelastine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Baclofen: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Barbiturates: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Benzodiazepines: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Benzphetamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and an amphetamine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as amphetamines, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and brexpiprazole for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and brompheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and brompheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and brompheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and brompheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and brompheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and buprenorphine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and buprenorphine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure. (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure. (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure. (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Butorphanol: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and butorphanol for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Caffeine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure. (Moderate) Patients who regularly consume caffeine-containing foods or beverages may need to limit caffeine intake during esketamine treatment. Blood pressure should be closely monitored in patients treated with esketamine who regularly consume caffeine. Esketamine can increase blood pressure at all recommended doses and caffeine is a stimulant that may cause additive effects on blood pressure when combined with esketamine.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and sodium oxybate for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and cannabidiol for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as entacapone, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and cariprazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Carisoprodol: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and cetirizine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and cetirizine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and a tricyclic antidepressant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpheniramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and chlorpromazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Chlorzoxazone: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and clemastine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and a tricyclic antidepressant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
clonazePAM: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
cloNIDine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and clonidine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Clorazepate: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
cloZAPine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and clozapine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and promethazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and promethazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and cyproheptadine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Dantrolene: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Desipramine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and a tricyclic antidepressant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and deutetrabenazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and dexmedetomidine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and methylphenidate or its derivatives. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as methylphenidates, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and an amphetamine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as amphetamines, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and diphenhydramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
diazePAM: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and diethylpropion. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as diethylpropion, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and dimenhydrinate for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and diphenhydramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and diphenhydramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and diphenhydramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and diphenhydramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and atropine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Doxepin: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and a tricyclic antidepressant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and doxylamine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and doxylamine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
droPERidol: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and droperidol for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day.
Entacapone: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as entacapone, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Estazolam: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Eszopiclone: (Major) Use of eszopiclone during treatment with esketamine may increase sedation and complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., driving, talking, eating, or performing other activities while not fully awake). Instruct patients to contact their provider immediately if these symptoms or behaviors occur and not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Major) Although CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics, patients also receiving esketamine should be closely monitored for additive effects that may prolong recovery after administration of a general anesthetic. If possible, avoid scheduling a treatment session with esketamine on the same day that general anesthesia is required. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and flibanserin for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and fluphenazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep after a restful sleep.
Flurazepam: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and gabapentin for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
General anesthetics: (Major) Although CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics, patients also receiving esketamine should be closely monitored for additive effects that may prolong recovery after administration of a general anesthetic. If possible, avoid scheduling a treatment session with esketamine on the same day that general anesthesia is required. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and guanfacine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Haloperidol: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and haloperidol for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and hydroxyzine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and iloperidone for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Imipramine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and a tricyclic antidepressant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Isocarboxazid: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and MAOIs for sedation and increased blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Isoflurane: (Major) Although CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics, patients also receiving esketamine should be closely monitored for additive effects that may prolong recovery after administration of a general anesthetic. If possible, avoid scheduling a treatment session with esketamine on the same day that general anesthesia is required. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Ketamine: (Major) Although CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics, patients also receiving esketamine should be closely monitored for additive effects that may prolong recovery after administration of a general anesthetic. If possible, avoid scheduling a treatment session with esketamine on the same day that general anesthesia is required. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and cetirizine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and an amphetamine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as amphetamines, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and lofexidine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
LORazepam: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and loxapine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and lurasidone for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and meclizine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and melatonin for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and meprobamate for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Metaxalone: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Methamphetamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and an amphetamine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as amphetamines, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Methocarbamol: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Methohexital: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and methyldopa for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and methylphenidate or its derivatives. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as methylphenidates, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Methylphenidate: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and methylphenidate or its derivatives. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as methylphenidates, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and metoclopramide for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Midazolam: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and mirtazapine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Modafinil: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and modafinil. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as modafinil, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Molindone: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and molindone for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and MAOIs for sedation and increased blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and nalbuphine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Nefazodone: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and nefazodone for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and a tricyclic antidepressant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
OLANZapine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and olanzapine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and olanzapine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and olanzapine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Opiate Agonists: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Orphenadrine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Oxazepam: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and paliperidone for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and pentazocine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and perampanel for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and perphenazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and a tricyclic antidepressant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and perphenazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and phendimetrazine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as phendimetrazine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Phenelzine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and MAOIs for sedation and increased blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and atropine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and scopolamine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Phentermine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and phentermine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as phentermine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and phentermine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as phentermine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure.
Pimavanserin: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and pimavanserin for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Pimozide: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and pimozide for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Pramipexole: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as pramipexole, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and pregabalin for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Primidone: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and prochlorperazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Promethazine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and promethazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and promethazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and promethazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Propofol: (Major) Although CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics, patients also receiving esketamine should be closely monitored for additive effects that may prolong recovery after administration of a general anesthetic. If possible, avoid scheduling a treatment session with esketamine on the same day that general anesthesia is required. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Protriptyline: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and a tricyclic antidepressant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Quazepam: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and quetiapine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and ramelteon for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Rasagiline: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as rasagiline, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Remimazolam: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
risperiDONE: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and risperidone for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
rOPINIRole: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as ropinirole, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Rotigotine: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as rotigotine, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Safinamide: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as safinamide, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and scopolamine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Secobarbital: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and selegiline for sedation and increased blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and methylphenidate or its derivatives. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as methylphenidates, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Although CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics, patients also receiving esketamine should be closely monitored for additive effects that may prolong recovery after administration of a general anesthetic. If possible, avoid scheduling a treatment session with esketamine on the same day that general anesthesia is required. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and sodium oxybate for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and esketamine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and stiripentol for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and suvorexant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and tasimelteon for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Temazepam: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and tetrabenazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Thalidomide: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and thalidomide for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Thioridazine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and thioridazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and thiothixene for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
tiZANidine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Tolcapone: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as tolcapone, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with esketamine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with esketamine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and MAOIs for sedation and increased blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
traZODone: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and trazodone for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Triazolam: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and a tricyclic antidepressant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and trifluoperazine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Trimipramine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and a tricyclic antidepressant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and valerian for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and valproic acid for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Zaleplon: (Major) Use of zaleplon during treatment with esketamine may increase sedation and complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., driving, talking, eating, or performing other activities while not fully awake). Instruct patients to contact their provider immediately if these symptoms or behaviors occur and not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and ziprasidone for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Zolpidem: (Major) Use of zolpidem during treatment with esketamine may increase sedation and complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., driving, talking, eating, or performing other activities while not fully awake). Instruct patients to contact their provider immediately if these symptoms or behaviors occur and not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, dysgeusia, headache, hypoesthesia, impaired cognition, insomnia, lethargy, loss of consciousness, memory impairment, myasthenia, psychomotor impairment, tremor, vertigo
    General Information
    Because of the possibility of delayed or prolonged sedation, patients treated with esketamine must be monitored by a health care provider for at least 2 hours at each treatment session, followed by an assessment to determine when the patient is considered clinically stable and ready to leave the health care setting. During clinical trial evaluation of esketamine nasal spray in adults, the following centrally-mediated effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving esketamine and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo: dizziness (22% to 45%), dysarthria (4%), dysgeusia (4% to 20%), headache (19% to 20%), hypoesthesia (4% to 18%), lethargy (4% to 11%), mental impairment (3%), sedation/drowsiness (6% to 29%), tremor (3%), insomnia (5% to 8%), vertigo (3% to 23%), disturbance in attention (2%), feeling abnormal (3%), feeling drunk (4% to 7%), and feeling of relaxation (2%). In addition to sedation, esketamine may cause loss of consciousness. In some cases, patients may display diminished or less apparent breathing. In clinical trials, 48% to 61% of esketamine-treated patients developed sedation based on the Modified Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation scale (MOAA/S), and 0.3% to 0.4% of esketamine-treated patients experienced loss of consciousness (MOAA/S score of 0). Adverse CNS or related effects that led to discontinuation of esketamine included dizziness (0.6% to 0.9%), headache (0.3%), vertigo (0.2%), sedation (0.2% to 0.9%), and myasthenia (0.3%). In a separate study, there was a dose-related increase in sedation/drowsiness, with a frequency of 50% to 61% in patients less than 65 years of age receiving 56 mg to 84 mg of esketamine and 49% of patients 65 years of age and older receiving 28 mg to 84 mg of esketamine. Two controlled trials to evaluate the effects of esketamine nasal spray on the ability to drive showed that the effects of the 84 mg dose were comparable to placebo at 6 hours and 18 hours post-dose; although, 2 esketamine-treated patients discontinued the driving test at 8 hours post-dose because of unspecified adverse reactions related to the drug. Esketamine may cause psychomotor impairment (e.g., impaired attention, judgment, thinking, reaction speed, and motor skills). Short-term impaired cognition has occurred following administration of a single therapeutic dose of nasal esketamine, and long-term cognitive and memory impairment have occurred after repeated misuse or abuse of ketamine, a racemic mixture containing esketamine. In 1-year and 3-year long-term, open-label clinical trials in adults, the effects of esketamine nasal spray on cognitive functioning remained stable over time.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      loss of consciousness
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myasthenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psychomotor impairment
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bradycardia, hypertension, hypertensive crisis, hypotension, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of esketamine nasal spray in adults receiving oral antidepressant therapy concurrently, the following adverse cardiac effects occurred in at least 2% of esketamine recipients and more frequently than with placebo: sinus tachycardia (2% to 4%) and hypertension (increased blood pressure) [10% to 15%]. Hypertension led to discontinuation in 0.6% to 0.9% and 0.2% of esketamine recipients, respectively. The percentage of esketamine-treated subjects less than 65 years who experienced blood pressure changes were as follows: systolic blood pressure (SBP) increase to 180 mmHg or higher (3%), SBP increase of 40 mmHg or more (8%), diastolic blood pressure (DBP) increase to 110 mmHg or higher (4%), and DBP increase of 25 mmHg or more (13%). The percentage of esketamine-treated subjects 65 years and older who experienced blood pressure changes were as follows: SBP increase to 180 mmHg or higher (3%), SBP increase of 40 mmHg or more (17%), DBP increase to 110 mmHg or higher (0%), and DBP increase of 25 mmHg or more (14%).  During esketamine monotherapy trials in adults, blood pressure changes were as follows: SBP increase to 180 mmHg or higher (0.9%), SBP increase of 40 mmHg or more (8%), DBP increase to 110 mmHg or higher (1%), and DBP increase by 25 mmHg or more (11%). Esketamine increases SBP and/or DBP at all recommended doses. Blood pressure elevations peak about 40 minutes after esketamine administration and last about 4 hours. A substantial increase in blood pressure can occur after any dose, even if smaller blood pressure effects were observed during previous administrations. Blood pressure should be assessed before esketamine administration. In individuals with elevated blood pressure or hypertension before treatment with esketamine (e.g., generally higher than 140/90 mmHg), consider delaying treatment based on the benefits and risks. Blood pressure should be monitored for at least 2 hours post-treatment, with an assessment at about 40 minutes post-dose and subsequently, as clinically warranted, until values decline. If blood pressure remains high, obtain prompt assistance from a provider experienced in blood pressure management. In individuals who experience symptoms of hypertensive crisis or hypertensive encephalopathy, refer for emergency care. Overall evidence from nonclinical and clinical data indicates a lack of relevant QT prolongation at therapeutic doses of esketamine nasal spray. During postmarketing experience with esketamine, hypotension and bradycardia have also been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertensive crisis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anxiety, confusion, dissociation, dysphoria, euphoria, hallucinations
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of esketamine nasal spray in adults, the following adverse psychiatric effects occurred in at least 2% of esketamine recipients and more frequently than with placebo: anxiety (10% to 15%), dissociation (28% to 48%), euphoria (4% to 7%), dysphoria (2%), confusion (2%), and intentional self-injury (3%). Dissociative symptoms (e.g., derealization, depersonalization) and perceptual changes (e.g., distortion of time and space, illusions) were the most commonly reported psychological effects (61% to 75%) during clinical trials, with 61% to 69% of recipients younger than 65 years of age experiencing dissociation at doses of 56 mg or 84 mg, and 75% of adults 65 years of age and older experiencing dissociation at doses ranging from 28 mg to 84 mg. In clinical trials, dissociation was transient and occurred on the day of dosing. Dose-related increases in the incidence of dissociative symptoms were observed in one fixed-dose study. Esketamine may also cause hallucinations. Adverse effects leading to discontinuation of esketamine included anxiety (1.2%), dissociation (0.4% to 2.6%), and panic attacks (0.2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dissociation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    increased urinary frequency
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of esketamine nasal spray in adults, pollakiuria (increased urinary frequency) occurred in 2% to 3% of patients receiving esketamine and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo. Cases of ulcerative or interstitial cystitis have been reported during long-term off-label use or misuse/abuse of ketamine, a racemic mixture containing esketamine. No cases of esketamine-related interstitial cystitis were observed in any studies, including those with treatment up to 1 year.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Monitor all antidepressant-treated patients for any indication for worsening of depression or the condition being treated and the emergence of suicidal behaviors or suicidal ideation, especially during the initial few months of drug therapy and after dosage changes. During clinical trial evaluation of esketamine nasal spray, suicidal ideation and worsening of depression led to discontinuation of esketamine in 0.5% and 0.9% of patients, respectively. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials of antidepressants (n = 4,500 pediatrics and 77,000 adults), there was an increased risk for suicidal thoughts and behaviors in patients 24 years of age and younger receiving an antidepressant versus placebo, with considerable variation in the risk of suicidality among drugs. The difference in the absolute risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across different indications was highest in those with major depression. No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. These studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior with antidepressant use in patients over age 24; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressant use in patients aged 65 and older. Caregivers and/or patients should immediately notify the prescriber of changes in behavior or suicidal ideation during treatment with esketamine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    constipation, dental pain, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of esketamine nasal spray in adults, the following adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving esketamine and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo: constipation (3% to 10%), diarrhea (7%), xerostomia (4% to 5%), nausea (27% to 28%), vomiting (9% to 11%), and dental pain (toothache 2%). Nausea or vomiting led to discontinuation of esketamine in 0.4% to 0.9% of patients. In one fixed-dose, controlled trial, severe nausea and vomiting were not reported by any patients receiving the 56 mg dose, however, severe nausea and vomiting were each reported in 3% of patients receiving the 84 mg dose. Most cases of nausea and vomiting occurred on the day of dosing and resolved the same day (median duration not exceeding 1 hour in most patients). Rates of nausea and vomiting declined over time with ongoing treatment sessions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dental pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nasal dryness, throat irritation
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of esketamine nasal spray in adults, the following adverse respiratory effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving esketamine and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo: nasal discomfort, including nasal dryness, crusting, and/or pruritus (7%), oropharyngeal pain (3% to 4%), and throat irritation (4% to 7%). Sense of smell was assessed over time; no difference was observed between patients receiving esketamine nasal spray and those receiving placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nasal dryness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      throat irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperhidrosis, myalgia
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of esketamine nasal spray in adults, general effects not listed elsewhere that occurred in patients receiving esketamine and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo included hyperhidrosis (4% to 5%) and myalgia (2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    respiratory arrest, respiratory depression
    General Information
    In postmarketing experience with esketamine, respiratory depression (including rare reports of respiratory arrest) has occurred. Patients should be monitored for changes in respiratory status by a healthcare provider for at least 2 hours (including pulse oximetry) at each treatment session, followed by an assessment to determine when the patient is considered clinically stable and ready to leave the healthcare setting.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory arrest
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    physiological dependence, psychological dependence, tolerance
    General Information
    Assess the risk of abuse or misuse prior to prescribing esketamine nasal spray and monitor all patients for signs of abuse while on therapy. Esketamine is a controlled substance and has the potential for abuse, psychological dependence, and physiological dependence. Esketamine may produce a variety of symptoms including anxiety, dysphoria, disorientation, insomnia, flashbacks, hallucinations, feelings of floating, detachment, and being "spaced out". In an abuse potential study between esketamine nasal spray and intravenous ketamine, a racemic mixture containing esketamine, the mean scores for "Drug Liking at the Moment" and "Take Drug Again" were similar between high dose esketamine (84 mg and 112 mg) and 0.5 mg/kg of intravenous ketamine. The 112 mg dose of intranasal esketamine was associated with significantly higher scores for "hallucinating", "floating", "detached", and "spaced out" than the 84 mg esketamine dose and the intravenous ketamine dose. Physical dependence has been reported with prolonged use of ketamine. Reported withdrawal symptoms of ketamine include craving, fatigue, poor appetite, and anxiety. During clinical trial evaluation of esketamine, there were no withdrawal symptoms captured up to 4 weeks after cessation of treatment; however, patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of physical dependence upon discontinuation of the drug. Tolerance has been reported with prolonged use of ketamine; a similar effect is possible during prolonged use of esketamine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Esketamine is the S-enantiomer of racemic ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist. Esketamine is a nasal spray that is used as monotherapy or as an adjunct to an oral antidepressant for treatment-resistant depression in adults with major depressive disorder (MDD). It may also be used in conjunction with an oral antidepressant for the treatment of depressive symptoms in adults with major depressive disorder and acute suicidal ideation or behavior. Treatment-resistant individuals are defined as those who have failed 2 or more standard antidepressant treatments. Treated patients, the treating prescriber, health care setting, and dispensing pharmacies must be enrolled in the Spravato REMS program. Administration must occur in a health care setting, with recipients monitored for at least 2 hours after dosing due to the potential for serious adverse outcomes resulting from dissociative symptoms, sedation, respiratory depression, or abuse. Because the sedation caused by esketamine can be delayed or prolonged, instruct treated individuals to avoid driving or engaging in other tasks requiring complete mental alertness until the day after treatment. Esketamine, like ketamine, has the potential for abuse, and the benefit versus risk of esketamine should be determined for those people at risk for drug abuse, misuse, or diversion. Esketamine was FDA-approved in 2019.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Esketamine non-selectively blocks the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, which is an ionotropic glutamate receptor. Esketamine is the S-enantiomer of ketamine, which is primarily used for its anesthetic properties. The mechanism by which esketamine exerts its antidepressant effect is unknown; however, the activity on NMDA receptors may be responsible for both the therapeutic and the adverse psychiatric effects of esketamine, including dissociative symptoms and abuse. Ketamine, a racemic mixture containing esketamine, has sympathomimetic activity resulting in adverse cardiac effects including tachycardia, hypertension, and increased intracranial and intraocular pressure. Similar effects have occurred with esketamine. The major metabolite of esketamine, noresketamine, has demonstrated activity at the NMDA receptor with less affinity.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Other Route(s)
    Description
    Following nasal spray administration, the mean absolute bioavailability is about 48%. The time to reach maximum esketamine plasma concentrations (Cmax) is 20 to 40 minutes after the last nasal spray of a treatment session. Esketamine exposure increases with dose from 28 mg to 84 mg. The inter-subject variability of esketamine ranges from 27% to 66% for Cmax and 18% to 45% for AUC. The intra-subject variability of esketamine is about 15% for Cmax and 10% for AUC.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Esketamine is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic disease or impairment (Child-Pugh class C) because the drug has not been studied in this population. Patients with moderate hepatic impairment have a higher mean AUC and half-life than those with normal hepatic function; therefore, a longer duration of monitoring for adverse reactions from esketamine administration may be required in this population.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    During clinical trial evaluation of esketamine nasal spray, the mean esketamine maximum concentrations and AUC values were higher in patients with mild to severe renal impairment; however, no dosage adjustments are required.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of esketamine nasal spray in pediatric patients have not been studied.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    During clinical trial evaluation of esketamine nasal spray, the mean esketamine maximum concentrations and AUC values were higher in elderly patients than younger adults; however, no overall differences in the safety profile were observed between patients 65 years of age and older and patients younger than 65 years of age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of esketamine nasal spray were observed based upon gender.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of esketamine nasal spray were observed based upon body weight ranging from more than 39 kg up to 170 kg.
  Text
  Esketamine is available as a nasal spray. No accumulation of esketamine in plasma was observed following twice a week administration. Protein binding is clinically insignificant. Esketamine is primarily metabolized to noresketamine, the active metabolite of esketamine, by CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Noresketamine is metabolized by CYP-dependent pathways and subsequent metabolism occurs through glucuronidation. Noresketamine has a brain-to-plasma ratio that is 4 to 6 times lower than esketamine. Elimination of esketamine is biphasic, with a rapid decline for the initial 2 to 4 hours and a mean terminal half-life that ranged from 7 to 12 hours. The elimination of noresketamine is also biphasic, with a rapid decline for the initial 4 hours and a mean terminal half-life of about 8 hours. Less than 1% of a dose is excreted as the parent compound. Following intravenous or oral administration, esketamine-derived metabolites were primarily recovered in urine (78% or more of a dose) and feces (2% or less of a dose).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP2B6, CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19
Esketamine is primarily metabolized to noresketamine by CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 and a lesser extent by CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Esketamine has modest induction effects on CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 in human hepatocytes. Esketamine and its major metabolites do not induce CYP1A2, or inhibit CYPs, transporter systems, or UGTs, except for a weak reversible inhibition of noresketamine on CYP3A4. Esketamine is not a substrate for P-gP, BCRP, OATP1B1, or OATP1B3. Noresketamine is metabolized by CYP-dependent pathways and subsequent metabolism occurs through glucuronidation.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intranasal Administration
      Description
      General Administration Instructions:
For nasal use only.
Each treatment must be administered under the direct supervision of a health care provider. Because of the risks of dissociation, the patient must be monitored by a health care provider during administration and for at least 2 hours after each treatment session, followed by an assessment to determine when the patient is considered clinically stable and ready to leave the health care setting.
Due to the potential for drug-induced nausea and vomiting, advise patients to avoid food for at least 2 hours before administration and avoid liquids at least 30 minutes before administration.
Patients requiring a nasal corticosteroid or nasal decongestant on dosing day should administer these medicines at least 1 hour before receiving esketamine.
Before each treatment, instruct patients not to engage in potentially hazardous activities (e.g., driving, operating heavy machinery) until the next day after the treatment and after a restful sleep.
Monitor patients for changes in respiratory status for at least 2 hours (including pulse oximetry) at each treatment session.
Assess blood pressure before dosing. If baseline blood pressure is elevated (e.g., systolic BP more than 140 mmHg or diastolic BP more than 90 mmHg), consider risk of short-term increase in blood pressure versus benefit of esketamine. Do not administer esketamine if an increase in blood pressure or intracranial pressure poses a serious risk.
Reassess blood pressure about 40 minutes after dosing and subsequently as clinically indicated. If blood pressure is decreasing and the patient appears clinically stable for at least 2 hours, the patient may be discharged at the end of the post-dose monitoring period; if not, continue to monitor.
Missed doses: If a patient misses a treatment session, provided there is no worsening of their depressive symptoms, continue the current dosing schedule. If a patient misses treatment sessions and has worsening of depression symptoms, consider resuming treatment at the prior dosing schedule (e.g., if doses missed during weekly dosing, revert to twice weekly dosing).
 
Nasal Spray Administration:
Each device contains 2 sprays (1 spray for each nostril), for a total of 28 mg of esketamine. Use 2 devices for a 56 mg dose and 3 devices for an 84 mg dose with a 5-minute rest between use of each device.
Step 1: Instruct patient to blow nose before the first device use only. Confirm the required number of devices (56 mg = 2 devices; 84 mg = 3 devices).
Step 2: Check expiration date. Peel blister and remove device. To prevent loss of medication, do not prime the device before use. Ensure that the indicator on the device shows 2 green dots. Give device to patient.
Step 3: Instruct patient to hold device with thumb gently supporting but not pressing the plunger as shown in the product labeling. The patient should recline head at about 45 degrees during administration to keep medication in nose.
Step 4: Instruct patient as follows: insert tip straight into the first nostril; the nose rest should touch the skin between the nostrils; close the opposite nostril; breathe in through nose while pushing plunger all the way up until it stops; sniff gently after spraying to keep medication inside nose; switch hands to insert tip into the second nostril; repeat steps to deliver second spray.
Step 5: After administration is complete, take the device from the patient. Check that indicator on device shows no green dots. If green dot remains, have patient spray again into the second nostril. Instruct patient to rest comfortably (preferably semi-reclined) for 5 minutes after each device. If liquid drips out, dab nose with a tissue. DO NOT blow nose.
If a second device is required, ensure a 5-minute waiting period before using the second device to allow medication from the first device to be absorbed.
Disposal: Dispose of the used device per facility procedures and applicable local, state, or federal regulations for a controlled substance.
Refer to the 'Administration Instructions' section of the product labeling for detailed visual aids which accompany the written instructions.
    Name
    Inhalation Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    84 mg intranasally twice per week during the induction phase; 84 mg intranasally once per week during the maintenance phase.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    84 mg intranasally twice per week during the induction phase; 84 mg intranasally once per week during the maintenance phase.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Use not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A and B): No dosage adjustments are required.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C): Use is not recommended because the drug has not been studied in this population.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
There is no clinical experience with esketamine nasal spray in patients on dialysis.
