=== Eplerenone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2732)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Eplerenone is a selective aldosterone receptor antagonist (SARA).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 100 mg/day PO for hypertension; 50 mg/day PO for heart failure.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bradycardia, hyperkalemia, muscle paralysis, paresthesias, weakness, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, hirsutism, infertility, mastalgia, menstrual irregularity, postmenopausal bleeding, vaginal bleeding, angina, cough, dizziness, fatigue, headache, myocardial infarction

In an Overdose: Eplerenone-induced hyperkalemia is more likely to occur in patients with renal insufficiency, in those with diabetes mellitus with microalbuminuria, in elderly patients, or in patients receiving excessive dosages or overdosage.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Eplerenone is contraindicated in patients with hyperkalemia (serum potassium > 5.5 mEq/L) or in patients who are at risk for hyperkalemia, including those who are receiving potassium sparing diuretics. Eplerenone-induced hyperkalemia can cause life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias, and it is more...

Brand Names
  - Inspra

Dosage Forms
  - Eplerenone 25mg Oral tablet
  - Eplerenone 50mg Oral tablet
  - Inspra 25mg Tablet
  - Inspra 50mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        50 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase dose within 4 weeks to 50 mg PO twice daily if further control is needed. Usual dose: 50 to 100 mg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses. Dosage more than 100 mg/day does not provide additional blood pressure lowering benefit and presents an increased risk of hyperkalemia. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of hypertension, either as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        25 mg PO once daily, initially. Increase the dose within 4 weeks as tolerated to 50 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Guidelines recommend a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA) to reduce morbidity and mortality in persons with reduced ejection fraction heart failure (HFrEF) and NYHA class II to IV symptoms if eGFR is more than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 and serum potassium is less than 5 mEq/L. An MRA may be considered to decrease hospitalizations in select persons with preserved ejection fraction heart failure (HFpEF), particularly those with lower left ventricular ejection fractions. Most persons with HFpEF will benefit from an MRA to provide balanced diuresis with sequential nephron blockade, control hypertension, and reduce heart failure hospitalizations.
    Heading
    For the treatment of heart failure for reduction of cardiovascular mortality in stable, symptomatic persons with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (40% or less) (HFrEF) after an acute myocardial infarction

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Eplerenone is contraindicated in patients with hyperkalemia (serum potassium > 5.5 mEq/L) or in patients who are at risk for hyperkalemia, including those who are receiving potassium sparing diuretics. Eplerenone-induced hyperkalemia can cause life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias, and it is more likely to occur in patients with renal impairment or renal failure, renal disease, diabetes mellitus, or in elderly patients; these patients should have periodic serum electrolyte, creatinine, and BUN levels monitored. Subgroup analysis reveals that elderly patients > 75 years (20% of study population) did not appear to benefit from the use of eplerenone for the treatment of heart failure post-MI. Elderly patients also may be more sensitive to the hypotensive effects of eplerenone. According to the manufacturer, eplerenone is contraindicated in patients treated for hypertension (HTN) with a CrCl 2 mg/dl in males, or serum creatinine > 1.8 mg/dl in females). Eplerenone is contraindicated in patients treated for hypertension with type 2 diabetes mellitus with microalbuminuria (proteinuria). For diabetic patients treated with eplerenone for heart failure, caution is advised due to the increased risk of hyperkalemia. Subgroup analysis revealed that diabetic patients without clinical evidence of heart failure did not appear to benefit from eplerenone use. In addition, these subgroups had a higher rate of hyperkalemia. Eplerenone is predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4 and should also not be used in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (see Drug Interactions), due to the risk of hyperkalemia. Administration of eplerenone with other CYP3A4 inhibitors (i.e. moderate or weak inhibitors of CYP3A4) requires lower dosages of eplerenone (see Dosage and Drug Interactions). Serum potassium, creatinine, and BUN levels should be monitored in patients receiving eplerenone; use cautiously in those patients with existing electrolyte imbalance. In clinical trials of eplerenone, serum potassium was measured every 2 weeks for the first 1—2 months, then every month thereafter. Patients receiving eplerenone should not receive potassium supplements or increase their dietary intake of potassium unless they have refractory hypokalemia. Patients receiving eplerenone should be informed not to use dietary salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their prescribing health care professional.Although eplerenone was not found to have any associated adverse effects in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, it should be used cautiously in patients with severe hepatic disease; the use of eplerenone has not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment.Because eplerenone may cause dizziness, patients should use caution in driving or operating machinery until the effects of the drug are known.Safety and efficacy of eplerenone in children, infants or neonates has not been established.Eplerenone is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category B. Human reproductive studies have not been conducted and eplerenone should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed, after careful consideration of the risks and benefits.Eplerenone may be excreted into breast milk; therefore, a decision should be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or discontinue the use of eplerenone, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    adrenal insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, hyperkalemia, increased risk for hyperkalemia, proteinuria, renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Eplerenone is contraindicated in any individual with hyperkalemia (serum potassium greater than 5.5 mEq/L), renal impairment or renal failure defined as a creatinine clearance 30 mL/minute or less, or receiving concomitant therapy with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Additional contraindications for individuals with hypertension include type 2 diabetes mellitus with microalbuminuria, a serum creatinine greater than 2 mg/dL in males or greater than 1.8 mg/dL in females, a creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/minute, and concomitant potassium-sparing diuretics or potassium supplements. Individuals at an increased risk for hyperkalemia with eplerenone include those with impaired renal function, proteinuria, diabetes mellitus, Addison's disease (adrenal insufficiency), who are elderly, or taking concomitant potassium supplementation, potassium-containing salt substitutes, drugs that increase potassium (e.g., angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers), or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors. Avoid use of eplerenone with potassium supplements or other potassium-sparing diuretics. Eplerenone will exacerbate hyperkalemia, hypovolemia, hypotension, and reductions in serum sodium concentrations seen in adrenal insufficiency (Addison's disease) and worsen signs and symptoms of the disease. Measure serum potassium concentration prior to starting eplerenone, then within 1 week of initiation, at 4 weeks after initiation or dose adjustment, and then periodically thereafter; more frequent monitoring may be needed in individuals taking other medications that cause hyperkalemia and in those with impaired renal function. Eplerenone dose reduction is required for individuals receiving moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors that cannot be avoided. Measure serum potassium and serum creatinine within 3 to 7 days of initiating a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, ACE inhibitor, ARB, or NSAID. In individuals with heart failure who are unable to maintain a serum potassium concentration below 5.5 mEq/L, guidelines recommend discontinuation of aldosterone antagonist therapy. Guidelines also recommend avoiding use of eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension when the GFR is less than 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2 and for the treatment of heart failure when the GFR is less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2. If hyperkalemia occurs, decrease the dosage of or discontinue eplerenone and treat the hyperkalemia.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Geriatric individuals have a higher risk of eplerenone-induced hyperkalemia due to age-related decreases in creatinine clearance. Based on a subgroup analysis of the EPHESUS trial, geriatric adults more than 75 years of age may not benefit from the use of eplerenone for the treatment of heart failure post-myocardial infarction.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    The use of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRA), such as eplerenone, is generally not recommended during pregnancy. Spironolactone, which is an MRA with anti-androgenic activity, may adversely affect male fetal sex differentiation because testosterone is essential for male morphogenesis. Animal studies have shown feminization of male fetuses and endocrine dysfunction in females exposed to spironolactone in utero, including dose-dependent reductions in prostate and seminal vesicle weights in males, and enlarged ovaries and uteri in females, with effects persisting into adulthood. In contrast, eplerenone is a selective MRA that does not block androgen receptors, thereby minimizing the risk of fetal anti-androgenic effects. However, data on eplerenone use during pregnancy are insufficient to establish a definitive risk for major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse pregnancy outcomes. In animal studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed when eplerenone was given to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at exposures approximately 30 times the human exposure at the 100 mg/day therapeutic dose. Use eplerenone during pregnancy only if the potential benefits outweigh the risks.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with eplerenone. In mature rats, male fertility was decreased with eplerenone exposure at 17 times the 100 mg/day human therapeutic dose. Reversibility of effects was not evaluated.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use eplerenone with caution during breast-feeding. Data from one mother-infant pair indicates eplerenone is poorly excreted into human milk. Based on that report, the relative infant dose is 0.01% to 3.39%. Spironolactone may serve as a possible alternative.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    The use of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRA), such as eplerenone, is generally not recommended during pregnancy. Spironolactone, which is an MRA with anti-androgenic activity, may adversely affect male fetal sex differentiation because testosterone is essential for male morphogenesis. Animal studies have shown feminization of male fetuses and endocrine dysfunction in females exposed to spironolactone in utero, including dose-dependent reductions in prostate and seminal vesicle weights in males, and enlarged ovaries and uteri in females, with effects persisting into adulthood. In contrast, eplerenone is a selective MRA that does not block androgen receptors, thereby minimizing the risk of fetal anti-androgenic effects. However, data on eplerenone use during pregnancy are insufficient to establish a definitive risk for major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse pregnancy outcomes. In animal studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed when eplerenone was given to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at exposures approximately 30 times the human exposure at the 100 mg/day therapeutic dose. Use eplerenone during pregnancy only if the potential benefits outweigh the risks.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with eplerenone. In mature rats, male fertility was decreased with eplerenone exposure at 17 times the 100 mg/day human therapeutic dose. Reversibility of effects was not evaluated.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with adagrasib due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate. Another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when eplerenone is administered with alfentanil. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as eplerenone, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Ambrisentan: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving antihypertensive agents should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. If possible, patients should not take their antihypertensive medication 24 hours before receiving amifostine. Patients who can not stop their antihypertensive agents should not receive amifostine or be closely monitored during the infusion and, possibly, given lower doses.
aMILoride: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The combine use of these medications in patients with hypertension or renal impairment contraindicated.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The combine use of these medications in patients with hypertension or renal impairment contraindicated.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of clarithromycin and eplerenone is contraindicated. Clarithromycin potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Amphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving eplerenone and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving eplerenone and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving eplerenone and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of eplerenone and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
ARIPiprazole: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including eplerenone, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of atazanavir and eplerenone is contraindicated. Atazanavir potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of atazanavir and eplerenone is contraindicated. Atazanavir potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Avacopan: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with avacopan in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving avacopan, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating avacopan and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Azilsartan: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if eplerenone and baxdrostat are used together. Both medications increase serum potassium concentrations and concomitant use may increase the risk for hyperkalemia.
Benazepril: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Benzphetamine: (Major) Benzphetamine can increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of eplerenone. This represents a pharmacodynamic, and not a pharmacokinetic, interaction. Close monitoring of blood pressure, especially in patients who are taking antihypertensive agents, may be needed.
Berotralstat: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with berotralstat in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving berotralstat, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating berotralstat and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with lenacapavir in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving lenacapavir, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating lenacapavir and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate. Lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including eplerenone, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Candesartan: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Captopril: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as eplerenone, is necessary. An eplerenone dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as eplerenone, is necessary. An eplerenone dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Celecoxib: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with ceritinib due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of chloramphenicol and eplerenone is contraindicated. Chloramphenicol potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ciprofloxacin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of clarithromycin and eplerenone is contraindicated. Clarithromycin potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
Conivaptan: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with conivaptan in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving conivaptan, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating conivaptan and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Crizotinib: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with crizotinib in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving concurrent crizotinib, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating crizotinib and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Dabrafenib: (Major) The concomitant use of dabrafenib and eplerenone may lead to decreased eplerenone concentrations and loss of efficacy. Use of an alternative agent is recommended. If concomitant use of these agents together is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of eplerenone efficacy. Dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use of dabrafenib with a single dose of another sensitive CYP3A4 substrate decreased the AUC value of the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate by 65%.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of darunavir and eplerenone is contraindicated. Darunavir potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of darunavir and eplerenone is contraindicated. Darunavir potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of darunavir and eplerenone is contraindicated. Darunavir potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as eplerenone.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving eplerenone and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Diclofenac: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of eplerenone. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and eplerenone, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients taking eplerenone.
Diflunisal: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Diltiazem is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Dronedarone: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium, therefore concurrent use of eplerenone may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if eplerenone is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium, therefore concurrent use of eplerenone may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if eplerenone is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium, therefore concurrent use of eplerenone may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if eplerenone is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium, therefore concurrent use of eplerenone may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if eplerenone is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium, therefore concurrent use of eplerenone may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if eplerenone is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Duvelisib: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with duvelisib in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving duvelisib, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating duvelisib and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate. Duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer and may causes a decrease in eplerenone serum concentration. It is not known if the interaction is clinically significant.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer and may causes a decrease in eplerenone serum concentration. It is not known if the interaction is clinically significant.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer and may causes a decrease in eplerenone serum concentration. It is not known if the interaction is clinically significant.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with cobicistat due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with ensitrelvir due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
ePHEDrine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by eplerenone. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by eplerenone. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including eplerenone, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Epoprostenol can have additive effects when administered with other antihypertensive agents. These effects can be used to therapeutic advantage, but dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Erythromycin: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Erythromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Etodolac: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Fedratinib: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with fedratinib in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving fedratinib, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating fedratinib and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate. Fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Felodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Fenoprofen: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if finerenone and eplerenone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Fluconazole: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Fluconazole is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Fluvoxamine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with fosamprenavir in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving fosamprenavir, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating fosamprenavir and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate. Fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as eplerenone, is necessary. An eplerenone dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosinopril: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Grapefruit juice: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of grapefruit or grapefruit juice and eplerenone is contraindicated. Grapefruit potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and may increase serum eplerenone concentrations by about 25% and, hence, can increase the risk of developing eplerenone-induced hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) In general, haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium supplements (including dietary salt substitutes containing potassium) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The use of eplerenone in hypertensive patients treated with these medications is contraindicated. When medically necessary to replace losses, use potassium phosphates cautiously with eplerenone, as both drugs increase serum potassium concentrations. Those at risk for hyperkalemia include elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Patients at risk for hyperkalemia include elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Patients should have serum potassium and other electrolyte concentration determinations at periodic intervals. (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of idelalisib and eplerenone is contraindicated. Idelalisib potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Further reductions in blood pressure may occur when inhaled iloprost is administered to patients receiving other antihypertensive agents.
Imatinib: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Imatinib is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Indomethacin: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Iodine; Potassium Iodide, KI: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Irbesartan: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Isavuconazonium is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when MAOIs are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with eplerenone.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Isradipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use during and for 2 weeks after itraconazole therapy due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with ketoconazole due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Ketoprofen: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Ketorolac: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of clarithromycin and eplerenone is contraindicated. Clarithromycin potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Lefamulin: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with oral lefamulin in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving oral lefamulin, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating oral lefamulin and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with lenacapavir in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving lenacapavir, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating lenacapavir and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate. Lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Letermovir: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration is contraindicated in patients also receiving cyclosporine, because the magnitude of the interaction may be amplified. Eplerenone is predominately metabolized by CYP3A. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent administration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and exposure (AUC) of eplerenone by 1.7- and 5.4-fold, respectively. When given with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, the Cmax and AUC of eplerenone increased by 40% to 60% and 100% to 190%, respectively.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as eplerenone, is necessary. An eplerenone dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with ketoconazole due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including eplerenone, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving eplerenone and lisdexamfetamine. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents.
Lisinopril: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Lithium: (Major) Although no drug interaction studies are known to have been conducted with eplerenone and lithium to date, lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with diuretics (e.g., thiazides, spironolactone, triamterene) and ACE inhibitors. Through its effects on aldosterone, eplerenone promotes natruresis and therefore may stimulate a reflex increase in lithium and sodium reabsorption in the kidney. Therefore, if eplerenone is administered concomitantly with lithium, serum lithium levels should be monitored frequently.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with lonafarnib due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ritonavir and eplerenone is contraindicated. Ritonavir potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Losartan: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of eplerenone by decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of eplerenone by decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Meloxicam: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like eplerenone. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of methohexital and antihypertensive agents increases the risk of developing hypotension.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as eplerenone.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as eplerenone.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of mifepristone and eplerenone is contraindicated. Mifepristone potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and eplerenone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of eplerenone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of eplerenone. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer, St. John's Wort, resulted in a small (30%) decrease in the AUC of eplerenone.
Moexipril: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when MAOIs are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with eplerenone.
Nabumetone: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Naproxen: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of nefazodone and eplerenone is contraindicated. Nefazodone potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of nelfinavir and eplerenone is contraindicated. Nelfinavir potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Netupitant is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Nifedipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Nilotinib: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Nilotinib is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Nimodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ritonavir and eplerenone is contraindicated. Ritonavir potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and eplerenone is contraindicated due to the potential for hyperkalemia; consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase eplerenone exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with nirogacestat in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving nirogacestat, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating nirogacestat and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Nisoldipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Eplerenone is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of eplerenone may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Oxaprozin: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by eplerenone. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and eplerenone who are susceptible to hypotension.
Penicillin G: (Minor) Potassium-containing medications, such as penicillin G potassium, may potentially increase the risk of hyperkalemia in patients receiving eplerenone. Monitor serum potassium if eplerenone is used concurrently with drugs with potential to induce hyperkalemia.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perindopril: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when MAOIs are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with eplerenone.
Piroxicam: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of posaconazole and eplerenone is contraindicated. Posaconazole potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Potassium Acetate: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Potassium Chloride: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Potassium Citrate: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Potassium Gluconate: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Potassium Iodide, KI: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Potassium Phosphate: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium supplements (including dietary salt substitutes containing potassium) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The use of eplerenone in hypertensive patients treated with these medications is contraindicated. When medically necessary to replace losses, use potassium phosphates cautiously with eplerenone, as both drugs increase serum potassium concentrations. Those at risk for hyperkalemia include elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Patients at risk for hyperkalemia include elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Patients should have serum potassium and other electrolyte concentration determinations at periodic intervals.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium supplements (including dietary salt substitutes containing potassium) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The use of eplerenone in hypertensive patients treated with these medications is contraindicated. When medically necessary to replace losses, use potassium phosphates cautiously with eplerenone, as both drugs increase serum potassium concentrations. Those at risk for hyperkalemia include elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Patients at risk for hyperkalemia include elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Patients should have serum potassium and other electrolyte concentration determinations at periodic intervals.
Potassium: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The combine use of these medications in patients with hypertension or renal impairment contraindicated.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including eplerenone, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Quinapril: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
quiNINE: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Quinine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Ramipril: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension has been reported during administration of rasagiline. Therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. Rasagiline is a selective MAO-B inhibitor at manufacturer recommended doses; therefore, serious hypertensive reactions with agents affecting catecholamine release (e.g., guanabenz, reserpine, guanethidine) are unlikely. Nevertheless, patients receiving rasagiline in combination with an antihypertensive should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope, and changes in heart rate or blood pressure to their health care provider.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with relacorilant due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with ribociclib due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with ribociclib due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with rilzabrutinib in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving rilzabrutinib, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating rilzabrutinib and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with ritlecitinib in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving ritlecitinib, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating ritlecitinib and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate. Ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ritonavir and eplerenone is contraindicated. Ritonavir potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of saquinavir boosted with ritonavir and eplerenone is contraindicated. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as eplerenone.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and eplerenone. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Spironolactone: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The combine use of these medications in patients with hypertension or renal impairment contraindicated.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The combine use of these medications in patients with hypertension or renal impairment contraindicated.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Minor) St. John's Wort is a CYP3A4 inducer and causes a small (30%) decrease in eplerenone AUC. It is not known if the interaction is clinically significant. Advise patients to avoid this herbal dietary supplement. If a patient is using St. John's Wort with eplerenone, monitor the patient closely for evidence of decreased efficacy.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of eplerenone when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of eplerenone resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) Trimethoprim has a potassium-sparing effect on the distal nephron and may induce hyperkalemia, especially with pre-existing risk factors for hyperkalemia. Trimethoprim should be used with caution with other drugs known to cause significant hyperkalemia such as eplerenone.
Sulindac: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Telmisartan: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of tipranavir and eplerenone is contraindicated. Tipranavir potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Tolmetin: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and monitor blood pressure. The concomitant use of other potassium-sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Trandolapril: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Verapamil is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when MAOIs are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with eplerenone.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Triamterene: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The combine use of these medications in patients with hypertension or renal impairment contraindicated.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The combine use of these medications in patients with hypertension or renal impairment contraindicated.
Trimethoprim: (Major) Trimethoprim has a potassium-sparing effect on the distal nephron and may induce hyperkalemia, especially with pre-existing risk factors for hyperkalemia. Trimethoprim should be used with caution with other drugs known to cause significant hyperkalemia such as eplerenone.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with tucatinib due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate. Another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Valsartan: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as eplerenone, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of eplerenone when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Verapamil: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Verapamil is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of clarithromycin and eplerenone is contraindicated. Clarithromycin potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of voriconazole and eplerenone is contraindicated. Voriconazole potently inhibits the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme and can increase the serum concentrations of eplerenone. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Voxelotor: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with voxelotor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving voxelotor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. Measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating voxelotor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A substrate. Voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Hyperkalemia is the most dangerous potential side effect of eplerenone therapy. Eplerenone-induced hyperkalemia is more likely to occur in patients with renal insufficiency, in those with diabetes mellitus with microalbuminuria, in elderly patients, or in patients receiving excessive dosages or overdosage. Patients who receive CYP3A4 inhibitors or potassium supplements or those who have impaired renal function and are receiving eplerenone are particularly at risk for developing hyperkalemia. The risk of hyperkalemia can be minimized by patient selection, avoidance of certain concomitant treatments, and periodic monitoring (see Contraindications and Drug Interactions). Dose reduction of eplerenone has been shown to reduce serum potassium concentrations. In the EPHESUS trial (heart failure post-MI), the majority of hyperkalemia occurred within the first 3 months of therapy. In patients treated for heart failure, monitor serum potassium concentrations at baseline, within the first week of eplerenone therapy, and at one month after dosage initiation or dosage adjustments. Monitor serum potassium concentrations more frequently in patients at risk for hyperkalemia including diabetic patients and patients with renal impairment = 5.5 mEq/L, decrease eplerenone dosage. Hold eplerenone if the serum potassium concentration exceeds 6 mEq/L; may restart eplerenone therapy at 25 mg PO every other day once the serum potassium concentration falls below 5.5 mEq/L. In patients treated for hypertension (without heart failure), monitor serum potassium concentrations at baseline and periodically in patients at risk for hyperkalemia including patients receiving ACE inhibitors or angiotensin II antagonists (see Contraindications). Signs and symptoms of hyperkalemia may include muscular weakness, paresthesias, fatigue, flaccid muscle paralysis of the extremities, sinus bradycardia, shock, ECG changes, and potentially life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias. If symptomatic hyperkalemia occurs, eplerenone should be discontinued immediately, and specific measures should be taken to reduce serum potassium levels. Although in itself not likely to increase risk of hyperkalemia, a small increase in serum creatinine was seen in eplerenone-treated patients in clinical trials. A mean serum creatinine increase of 0.01 mg/dl was seen at the 50 mg PO daily dosage; less than 1% of patients had increases in blood urea nitrogen greater than 30 mg/dl or serum creatinine greater than 2 mg/dl. Periodic evaluations of serum electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN should be made.Eplerenone causes hyponatremia, with a mean serum sodium decrease of 0.7 mEq/L in patients taking 50 mg daily. In clinical trials, decreases in sodium 200 mg/dL were seen in 0.3% of eplerenone treated patients and increases in serum triglycerides > 250 mg/dl were reported in approximately 15% of eplerenone treated patients.Elevated hepatic enzymes (i.e. ALT, GGT) may be seen in patients taking eplerenone. In clinical trials at 50 mg/day, on average the serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) increased 0.8 U/L and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) increased 3.1 U/L. Increases in ALT > 120 U/L (>= 3 times the upper limit of normal) were reported in 0.7% of patients.The most common reasons for discontinuation of eplerenone therapy in clinical trials were headache, dizziness, angina, and myocardial infarction. Adverse events that were reported in 1—3% of patients and at a higher rate in patients treated with eplerenone versus placebo included diarrhea, abdominal pain, albuminuria, cough, fatigue, and influenza-like symptoms.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    bradycardia, hyperkalemia, muscle paralysis, paresthesias, weakness
    General Information
    Hyperkalemia is the most dangerous potential side effect of eplerenone therapy. Serum potassium should be monitored before initiation of therapy, within the first week, and at one month after the start of treatment or dose adjustment. Serum potassium should be assessed periodically thereafter. Patient characteristics and serum potassium concentrations may indicate that additional monitoring is appropriate. In the EPHESUS trial (heart failure post-MI), the majority of hyperkalemia occurred within the first 3 months of therapy and was reported at an incidence of 3.4% vs. 2% for placebo. Eplerenone-induced hyperkalemia is more likely to occur in patients with renal insufficiency, in those with diabetes mellitus with microalbuminuria, in elderly patients, or in patients receiving excessive dosages or overdosage. Patients who receive CYP3A4 inhibitors or potassium supplements or those who have impaired renal function and are receiving eplerenone are particularly at risk for developing hyperkalemia. The risk of hyperkalemia can be minimized by patient selection, avoidance of certain concomitant treatments, and periodic monitoring. Dose reduction of eplerenone has been shown to reduce serum potassium concentrations.  In patients with heart failure, if the serum potassium concentration is 5.5—5.9 mEq/L, decrease eplerenone dosage. Hold eplerenone if the serum potassium concentration >= 6 mEq/L; may restart therapy at 25 mg PO every other day once the serum potassium concentration falls below 5.5 mEq/L. If serum potassium is 0.5 mg/dl were reported in 6.5% of patients with congestive heart failure post-myocardial infarction and in 4.9% of placebo-treated patients. Increased creatinine was reported at an incidence of 2.4% vs. 1.5% for placebo in placebo-controlled trials of eplerenone for hypertension. A mean serum creatinine increase of 0.01 mg/dl was seen at the 50 mg PO daily dosage; less than 1% of patients had increases in blood urea nitrogen greater than 30 mg/dl or serum creatinine greater than 2 mg/dl. Periodic evaluations of serum electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN should be made.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle paralysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hyponatremia
    General Information
    Eplerenone causes hyponatremia, with a mean serum sodium decrease of 0.7 mEq/L in patients taking 50 mg daily. In clinical trials, decreases in sodium < 135 mEq/L were reported in 2.3% of patients receiving eplerenone compared to 0.6% with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    amenorrhea, gynecomastia, hirsutism, infertility, mastalgia, menstrual irregularity, postmenopausal bleeding, vaginal bleeding
    General Information
    As a selective aldosterone receptor antagonist, eplerenone has a relatively low affinity for androgen and progesterone receptors; however, endocrine-related adverse effects may still occur. In men, eplerenone has been reported to cause gynecomastia (0.5% to 1%) and mastodynia/mastalgia (0.3% to 1.3%). Based on animal data, eplerenone use may cause male infertility. In mature rats, male fertility was decreased with eplerenone exposure at 17 times the human therapeutic dose. Reversibility of effects was not evaluated. There have been reports of abnormal vaginal bleeding (0.6% up to 2.1%) in women taking eplerenone in clinical trials; women taking eplerenone may potentially experience menstrual irregularity, postmenopausal bleeding, hirsutism, deepened voice, and amenorrhea. The reported effects are usually reversible following discontinuance of therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amenorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      gynecomastia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hirsutism
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      mastalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      menstrual irregularity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      postmenopausal bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia are seen in patients receiving eplerenone. In placebo-controlled studies for hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia were both reported at an incidence of 1% compared to 0% for placebo. Increases in serum cholesterol and triglycerides occurred in a dose-dependent manner. The mean increase in serum cholesterol ranged from 0.4 mg/dL at 50 mg/day to 11.6 mg/dl at 400 mg/day and mean increase in triglycerides ranged from 7.1 mg/dL at 50 mg/day to 26.6 mg/dL at 400 mg/day. Increases in serum cholesterol > 200 mg/dL were seen in 0.3% of eplerenone-treated patients compared to 0% with placebo. Increases in serum triglycerides > 252 mg/dL were reported in approximately 15% of eplerenone-treated patients compared to 12% with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes (i.e. ALT, GGT) may be seen in patients taking eplerenone. In clinical trials at 50 mg/day, on average the serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) increased 0.8 Units/L and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) increased 3.1 Units/L. Increases in ALT > 120 Units/L (>= 3 times the upper limit of normal) were reported in 0.7% of eplerenone-treated patients compared to 0.3% of placebo-treated patients. Increases in ALT > 200 Units/L (>= 5 times upper limit of normal) were reported in 0.2% of eplerenone-treated patients compared to 0.3% of placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, angina, cough, diarrhea, dizziness, fatigue, headache, myocardial infarction
    General Information
    The most common reasons for discontinuation of eplerenone therapy in placebo-controlled clinical trials for hypertension were headache, dizziness, angina, myocardial infarction, and increased GGT. Adverse events that were reported in >= 1% of patients and at a higher rate in patients treated with eplerenone versus placebo included diarrhea (2% vs. 1%), abdominal pain (1% vs. 0%), albuminuria (1% vs 0%), cough (2% vs. 1%), dizziness (3% vs. 2%), fatigue (2% vs. 1%), and influenza-like symptoms (2% vs. 1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperuricemia
    General Information
    Increased uric acid (hyperuricemia) to > 9 mg/dL was reported in 0.3% of eplerenone-treated patients and in 0% of placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angioedema, rash
    General Information
    Angioedema and rash have been reported during post-marketing experience with eplerenone; however, a causal relationship has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Eplerenone is a selective aldosterone receptor antagonist (SARA). While similar in action to spironolactone at the aldosterone receptor, eplerenone has a lower incidence of endocrine related side effects due to its reduced affinity for glucocorticoid, androgen, and progesterone receptors. Eplerenone is metabolized by CYP3A4 and is subject to many drug interactions that increase the likelihood of developing hyperkalemia, the principal risk associated with eplerenone use. Eplerenone is used to treat hypertension, and is also used for the management of congestive heart failure. In the EPHESUS trial, the addition of eplerenone to standard medical therapy has been shown to reduce all-cause mortality (by 15%) for patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by left ventricular dysfunction and heart failure. Eplerenone was approved by the FDA in September 2002 for the treatment of hypertension. The FDA later approved eplerenone for the treatment of heart failure in post-myocardial infarction patients in October 2003.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Eplerenone is a competitive antagonist of aldosterone at mineralocorticoid receptors. The drug has been shown to antagonize both epithelial and nonepithelial aldosterone effects within the kidney, blood vessels, and heart. Eplerenone produces sustained increases in plasma renin and serum aldosterone, consistent with inhibition of the negative regulatory feedback of aldosterone on renin secretion. Eplerenone also appears to increase urinary excretion of serum aldosterone, plasma renin, and sodium. These effects contribute to eplerenone's blood pressure reduction properties and may prove to be effective in other disease states where the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system is involved such as stroke, heart failure, ventricular hypertrophy, myocardial necrosis, cardiac fibrosis, and malignant nephrosclerosis. Eplerenone may also possess some degree of anti-fibrotic action. Clinically in the treatment of hypertension, the blood pressure lowering effect of eplerenone is typically apparent within 2 weeks from the start of therapy, with maximal antihypertensive effects achieved within 4 weeks.
 
In animal studies eplerenone has been found to: prevent proteinuria and renal vascular lesions associated with hypertension; restore nitric oxide-mediated endothelial function associated with hypertension; attenuate development of cardiac fibrosis and heart failure following myocardial infarction by reducing reactive left-ventricular remodeling; and decrease subsequent constrictive coronary artery remodeling via a reduction on collagen accumulation following angioplasty. These findings indicate that treatment with eplerenone may reduce end-organ damage associated with hypertension, myocardial infarction, and heart failure through mechanisms beyond a reduction in blood pressure.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Eplerenone exhibits good bioavailability. Oral absorption is not affected by food. Both peak plasma levels (Cmax) and area under the curve (AUC) are dose proportional over doses of 25—100 mg and less than proportional at doses above 100 mg. Time to maximum concentration (Tmax) is achieved in 1.3 hours. Blood pressure lowering is typically apparent within 2 weeks from the start of therapy with eplerenone, with maximal antihypertensive effects achieved within 4 weeks.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In those with moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment compared with normal subjects, steady-state Cmax and AUC of eplerenone were increased by 3.6% and 42%, respectively. The manufacturer does not require initial dosage adjustment in patients with mild-moderate hepatic dysfunction. Eplerenone pharmacokinetics have not been studied in patients with severe liver disease (e.g., Child-Pugh Class C).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Eplerenone should not be used in any patient with CrCl <= 30 mL/min, due to the risk of hyperkalemia. The pharmacokinetics of eplerenone were evaluated in patients with varying degrees of renal insufficiency and in patients undergoing hemodialysis. Compared with control subjects, steady-state AUC and Cmax were increased by 38% and 24%, respectively, in patients with severe renal impairment and were decreased by 26% and 3%, respectively, in patients undergoing hemodialysis. No correlation was observed between the plasma clearance of eplerenone and CrCl. Eplerenone is not removed by hemodialysis.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    At steady state, elderly subjects had increases in eplerenone Cmax (22%) and AUC (45%) compared with younger adults (18 to 45 years). The manufacturer does not require initial dosage adjustment in the elderly.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    There are no apparent difference in eplerenone pharmacokinetics between male and female subjects.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    At steady state, eplerenone Cmax was 19% lower and AUC was 26% lower in blacks versus Caucasian patients, but no dosage adjustment appears necessary.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Cardiac Disease
Compared to healthy subjects, the steady-state Cmax and AUC of eplerenone are increased 30% and 38%, respectively, in patients with heart failure (NYHA Class II—IV).
  Text
  Eplerenone is administered orally. The plasma protein binding is about 50% and is primarily to alpha 1-acid glycoproteins. Metabolism is mediated primarily by hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP3A4 to inactive metabolites. Although a substrate of CYP3A4, it does not appear to significantly inhibit or induce the CYP450 system and does not affect P-glycoprotein. Strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 unpredictably increase blood concentrations and should not be used concomitantly; dosage adjustments are required when used concurrently with less potent CYP3A4 inhibitors. Less than 5% of a dose is recovered as unchanged drug in the urine or feces. The drug is mainly excreted by the kidneys, with 66% of the total dose recovered in the urine and 32% recovered in the feces. The elimination half-life is roughly 4—6 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP3A4

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    May administer eplerenone without regard to food.
Advise patients not to use dietary salt substitutes that contain potassium while taking eplerenone.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    100 mg/day PO for hypertension; 50 mg/day PO for heart failure.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    100 mg/day PO for hypertension; 50 mg/day PO for heart failure.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No initial dosage adjustments are necessary for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment; eplerenone has not been studied in severe hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 50 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment recommended.
CrCl less than 50 mL/minute: Use contraindicated for the treatment of hypertension. Use with cautious electrolyte monitoring in persons with heart failure. For persons treated for heart failure and an eGFR of 31 to 49 mL/minute/1.73 m2, guidelines recommend an initial dose of 12.5 mg PO once daily.
CrCl 30 mL/minute or less: Use contraindicated.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Use is contraindicated for the treatment of hypertension in persons with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute and for the treatment of heart failure in persons with CrCl of 30 mL/minute or less. Eplerenone is not removed by hemodialysis.
