=== Levoketoconazole (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5380)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Levoketoconazole is an oral cortisol synthesis inhibitor that is the 2S,4R-enantiomer derived from racemic ketoconazole.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1,200 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cirrhosis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, steatosis, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, increased intracranial pressure, insomnia, irritability, bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, hematoma, hematuria, ocular hemorrhage, thrombocytopenia, vaginal bleeding, azoospermia, emotional lability, gonadal suppression, gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), infertility, libido decrease, oligospermia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Levoketoconazole is also contraindicated in any individual who has exhibited ketoconazole hypersensitivity.

Brand Names
  - Recorlev

Dosage Forms
  - Recorlev 150mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        150 mg PO twice daily initially. Titrate by 150 mg/day no more frequently than every 2 to 3 weeks based on 24-hour urine free cortisol (UFC) levels and individual tolerability. Monitor cortisol levels from at least two 24-hour UFC collections every 2 to 3 weeks until an adequate clinical response is achieved. Max: 1,200 mg/day, administered as 600 mg PO twice daily. If needed, may reduce to 150 mg once daily for tolerability. Once maintenance dosage is achieved, monitor cortisol levels from at least two 24-hour UFC collections at least every 1 to 2 months, or as indicated. If 24-hour UFC remains above the upper normal limit after treatment with the maximum recommended dosage, or the individual cannot tolerate treatment, consider discontinuing levoketoconazole and switching to another therapy. LIMIT OF USE: Not approved for the treatment of fungal infections as safety and effectiveness for the treatment of fungal infections have not been established.
    Heading
    For the treatment of Cushing syndrome in individuals for whom pituitary surgery is not an option or has not been curative

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Levoketoconazole is also contraindicated in any individual who has exhibited ketoconazole hypersensitivity. Levoketoconazole should be used with caution in individuals with known azole antifungals hypersensitivity. Levoketoconazole may have a crosss-sensitivity with other azole derivatives such as itraconazole, fluconazole, clotrimazole, voriconazole, posaconazole, and miconazole.
    Headline
    cholelithiasis, ethanol ingestion, hepatic disease, hepatotoxicity, history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use
    General Information
    Levoketoconazole is associated with serious hepatotoxicity. Levoketoconazole is contraindicated in individuals with hepatic cirrhosis, acute hepatic disease or poorly controlled chronic hepatic disease, baseline AST or ALT greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), recurrent symptomatic cholelithiasis, history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use (hepatic injury or hepatotoxicity due to ketoconazole or any azole antifungal therapy that required discontinuation of treatment), or extensive metastatic liver disease (hepatocellular cancer). Cases of hepatotoxicity with a fatal outcome or requiring liver transplantation have been reported with the use of oral ketoconazole, the racemic mixture from which levoketoconazole is derived. Some individuals had no obvious previous risk factors for hepatic disease. Avoid concomitant use of levoketoconazole with hepatotoxic drugs. Advise individuals to avoid excessive ethanol ingestion while on treatment with levoketoconazole. Prompt recognition of liver injury is essential. At baseline, obtain liver function tests (LFTs). During levoketoconazole treatment, regularly monitor liver enzymes, with more frequent monitoring during dosage titration. Dosage adjustments, interruptions of treatment or discontinuation of the drug are recommended based on the severity of liver test abnormality.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, heart failure, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    Levoketoconazole is contraindicated in people with a baseline QT prolongation, or congenital long QT syndrome. Avoid use in people who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation, including bradycardia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. The FDA-labeling defines QT prolongation as QTcF interval of more than 470 msec at baseline. Levoketoconazole is also contraindicated in patients with torsade de pointes, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation and those with a first-degree family history of congenital long QT syndrome. QT interval prolongation may lead to life-threatening ventricular dysrhythmias such as torsades de pointes. Levoketoconazole is contraindicated in individuals taking other drugs known to cause QT interval prolongation associated with ventricular arrhythmias, including torsades de pointes. Use with caution in people with other risk factors for QT prolongation, such as congestive heart failure, and uncorrected electrolyte abnormalities, with more frequent ECG monitoring considered. Obtain a baseline QT interval measurement and regularly monitor ECG for an effect on the QT interval during levoketoconazole treatment. Correct hypokalemia and/or hypomagnesemia prior to levoketoconazole initiation and monitor periodically during treatment. Temporarily discontinue levoketoconazole if the QTcF interval exceeds 500 msec. After the QTcF interval returns to less than 500 msec and contributing factors are corrected, re-institution of levoketoconazole at a lower dose may be considered. If QT interval prolongation recurs after restarting levoketoconazole, permanently discontinue levoketoconazole.
    Headline
    adrenal insufficiency, major surgery
    General Information
    Levoketoconazole lowers cortisol levels and may lead to hypocortisolism with a potential for life-threatening adrenal insufficiency. Monitor adrenal function in individuals with adrenal insufficiency or with borderline adrenal function and in individuals under prolonged periods of stress (e.g., major surgery, critical illness) who are receiving levoketoconazole. Educate patients on the symptoms associated with hypocortisolism and advise them to contact a health care provider if they occur.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Levoketoconazole is the 2S, 4R-enantiomer of ketoconazole. The available published data from case series and case-control studies on the use of racemic ketoconazole during human pregnancy are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and there are no available data to inform the risk of miscarriage. There are risks to the mother and fetus from untreated Cushing's syndrome, including an increased risk of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality. Advise pregnant individuals about the potential risk to the fetus and consider whether the benefits of treatment with levoketoconazole outweigh the risks. No animal reproduction studies have been performed with levoketoconazole. Levoketoconazole constituted about 70% of the exposure in humans and animals after racemic ketoconazole administration. In animal reproduction studies, embryotoxic effects were observed in pregnant mice, rats and rabbits, and fetal malformations were observed in rats, following oral dosing of racemic ketoconazole during the period of organogenesis at doses equal and less than the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively. In addition, dystocia (difficult labor) was observed in mice and rats administered oral ketoconazole during the third trimester of gestation at doses below the MRHD of levoketoconazole as determined by body surface area (BSA).
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Use levoketoconazole with caution in people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others, due to the potential reversible reproductive risk on fertility. Levoketoconazole may lower testosterone concentrations and impair male and female infertility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed infant, including liver toxicity, advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during treatment with levoketoconazole and for 1 day (5 times the half-life) after the final dose. Levoketoconazole is the 2S, 4R-enantiomer of ketoconazole. Published data from a lactating woman with the use of ketoconazole shows that ketoconazole is present in human milk in low amounts, with no reported adverse effects on the breastfed infant. However, these limited data are not sufficient to inform the risk to a breastfed infant with exposure to levoketoconazole through breast milk. There are no data available on the effects of levoketoconazole on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Levoketoconazole is the 2S, 4R-enantiomer of ketoconazole. The available published data from case series and case-control studies on the use of racemic ketoconazole during human pregnancy are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and there are no available data to inform the risk of miscarriage. There are risks to the mother and fetus from untreated Cushing's syndrome, including an increased risk of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality. Advise pregnant individuals about the potential risk to the fetus and consider whether the benefits of treatment with levoketoconazole outweigh the risks. No animal reproduction studies have been performed with levoketoconazole. Levoketoconazole constituted about 70% of the exposure in humans and animals after racemic ketoconazole administration. In animal reproduction studies, embryotoxic effects were observed in pregnant mice, rats and rabbits, and fetal malformations were observed in rats, following oral dosing of racemic ketoconazole during the period of organogenesis at doses equal and less than the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively. In addition, dystocia (difficult labor) was observed in mice and rats administered oral ketoconazole during the third trimester of gestation at doses below the MRHD of levoketoconazole as determined by body surface area (BSA).
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed infant, including liver toxicity, advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during treatment with levoketoconazole and for 1 day (5 times the half-life) after the final dose. Levoketoconazole is the 2S, 4R-enantiomer of ketoconazole. Published data from a lactating woman with the use of ketoconazole shows that ketoconazole is present in human milk in low amounts, with no reported adverse effects on the breastfed infant. However, these limited data are not sufficient to inform the risk to a breastfed infant with exposure to levoketoconazole through breast milk. There are no data available on the effects of levoketoconazole on milk production.

Interactions
Abemaciclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abemaciclib with ketoconazole. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole is predicted to increase the AUC of abemaciclib up to 16-fold.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and ketoconazole; significantly increased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. If short-term ketoconazole use is unavoidable, interrupt acalabrutinib therapy. Wait at least 24 hours after ketoconazole has been discontinued before resuming acalabrutinib at the previous dosage. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 3.9-fold and 5.1-fold, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong inhibitor for 5 days.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. If ketoconazole is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with ketoconazole may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ketoconazole may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ketoconazole could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ketoconazole is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. If ketoconazole is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor like ketoconazole can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ketoconazole is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Formoterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Ketoconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase concentrations of both medications and result in additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Per the manufacturer of levoketoconazole, use with other agents that cause QT prolongation is contraindicated. If use is necessary, wait for adagrasib levels to reach steady state (approximately 8 days after initiation), consider a ketoconazole dosage reduction, and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use before adagrasib steady state is achieved may increase adagrasib exposure and the risk for adagrasib-related adverse reactions. Both medications are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. Both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. Concomitant use of a single 200 mg dose of adagrasib with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased adagrasib exposure by approximately 4-fold, however, no clinically significant differences in pharmacokinetics are predicted at steady state.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until ketoconazole has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of ketoconazole) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ketoconazole and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ketoconazole. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse effects during chronic concomitant use of inhaled or nasal budesonide and ketoconazole. Avoid concomitant use of oral budesonide and ketoconazole. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole has been observed to increase the overall exposure of oral budesonide by 8-fold. The total absolute bioavailability of inhaled and nasal budesonide products ranges from 6% to 39% of the labeled dose.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. If ketoconazole is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If ketoconazole is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alfuzosin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of alfuzosin with ketoconazole is contraindicated as potentially increased alfuzosin concentrations can result in hypotension, and potentially life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia. Alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole increased the alfuzosin AUC by 2.5-fold to 3.2-fold.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Coadmistration of aliskiren with ketoconazole, causes a significant increase in the plasma concentration of aliskiren. When 200 mg of ketoconazole twice daily was administered with aliskiren, the plasma concentrations of aliskiren increased by 80%. Although a 400 mg dose of ketoconazole was not studied, it is expected that the higher dose would further increase plasma concentrations of aliskiren. Blood pressure should be monitored in patients taking both of these medications.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadmistration of aliskiren with ketoconazole, causes a significant increase in the plasma concentration of aliskiren. When 200 mg of ketoconazole twice daily was administered with aliskiren, the plasma concentrations of aliskiren increased by 80%. Although a 400 mg dose of ketoconazole was not studied, it is expected that the higher dose would further increase plasma concentrations of aliskiren. Blood pressure should be monitored in patients taking both of these medications.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) The maximum recommended starting dose of almotriptan is 6.25 mg if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary; do not exceed 12.5 mg within a 24-hour period. Concomitant use of almotriptan and ketoconazole should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased almotriptan exposure by approximately 60%.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant ketoconazole and pioglitazone use. Concomitant use increased ketoconazole exposure and peak concentration by 34% and 14%, respectively.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with ketoconazole may increase exposure of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is partially metabolized by CYP3A4; ketoconazole is a strong CY3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of alosetron with ketoconazole increased mean alosetron expsure (AUC) by 29%.
ALPRAZolam: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ketoconazole and alprazolam is contraindicated. Ketoconazole significantly impairs the CYP3A4 metabolism of alprazolam, resulting in significantly elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Ketoconazole is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ketoconazole, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer antacids at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Administer antacids at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer antacids at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Administer antacids at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Administer antacids at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Amiodarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of amiodarone and ketoconazole due to increased amiodarone exposure and an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and amisulpride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Ketoconazole inhibits the CYP3A and P-gp-mediated metabolism of atorvastatin. In addition, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may theoretically blunt adrenal and/or gonadal steroid production by interfering with cholesterol synthesis and should be used with caution when given concomitantly with drugs that may decrease the concentrations or activity of endogenous hormones, such as ketoconazole. The clinical relevance of these potential interactions has not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and clarithromycin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse events. Both ketoconazole and clarithromycin are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Moderate) In vitro and in vivo animal studies of the combination of amphotericin B and imidazoles suggest that imidazole antifungal agents may induce fungal resistance to amphotericin B. Combination therapy should be administered with caution, especially in immunocompromised patients.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Moderate) In vitro and in vivo animal studies of the combination of amphotericin B and imidazoles suggest that imidazole antifungal agents may induce fungal resistance to amphotericin B. Combination therapy should be administered with caution, especially in immunocompromised patients.
Amphotericin B: (Moderate) In vitro and in vivo animal studies of the combination of amphotericin B and imidazoles suggest that imidazole antifungal agents may induce fungal resistance to amphotericin B. Combination therapy should be administered with caution, especially in immunocompromised patients.
Anagrelide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and anagrelide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Antacids: (Moderate) Administer antacids at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid apalutamide for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. The exposure of apalutamide may also be increased. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole and/or increased apalutamide-related adverse effects; adjust dosage for both drugs as needed. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor; apalutamide is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer.
Apixaban: (Major) Reduce the apixaban dose by 50% when coadministered with drugs that are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp, such as ketoconazole. If patients are already receiving the reduced dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, avoid concomitant administration of apixaban and ketoconazole. Concomitant administration of ketoconazole and apixaban results in increased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of bleeding.
Apomorphine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and apomorphine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid coadministration use of aprepitant/fosaprepitant in patients taking ketoconazole or levoketoconazole due to substantially increased exposure of aprepitant. Fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant; therefore, a similar interaction is likely. Aprepitant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the aprepitant AUC and mean terminal half-life by approximately 5-fold and 3-fold, respectively.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Arformoterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Ketoconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP).
ARIPiprazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in armodafinil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as ketoconazole are possible. However, because armodafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and arsenic trioxide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and artemether due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Artemether is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole (single dose) with artemether has resulted in a moderate increase in artemether and DHA (active metabolite) exposure. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and lumefantrine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole (single dose) with lumefantrine has resulted in moderately increased lumefantrine exposure.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Closely monitor for asciminib-related adverse reactions if concurrent use of asciminib 200 mg twice daily with ketoconazole is necessary as asciminib exposure may increase. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Asenapine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and asenapine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ketoconazole may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ketoconazole could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Ketoconazole requires an acidic pH for absorption. Medications that increase gastric pH or decrease acid output can cause a notable decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole. Medications that have this effect are antacids, antimuscarinics, histamine H2-blockers, and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Except for antacids, these medications have a prolonged duration of action, and staggering their time of administration with ketoconazole by several hours may not prevent the drug interaction; ketoconazole should be administered at least 2 hours before or 1 hour after antacids. An alternative imidazole antifungal should be chosen if any of these gastrointestinal medications are required. If these drugs must be coadministered, administer ketoconazole tablets with an acidic beverage and closely monitor for breakthrough infection.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. If ketoconazole is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor like ketoconazole can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ketoconazole is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid atazanavir for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ketoconazole and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid atazanavir for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ketoconazole and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid cobicistat for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Both ketoconazole and cobicistat are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Atogepant: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 mg PO once daily when used with ketoconazole. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor resulted in a 5.5-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure.
Atomoxetine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and atomoxetine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation has been reported postmarketing with atomoxetine; ketoconazole is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Atorvastatin: (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy. Ketoconazole inhibits the CYP3A and P-gp-mediated metabolism of atorvastatin. In addition, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may theoretically blunt adrenal and/or gonadal steroid production by interfering with cholesterol synthesis and should be used with caution when given concomitantly with drugs that may decrease the concentrations or activity of endogenous hormones, such as ketoconazole. The clinical relevance of these potential interactions has not been established.
Avacopan: (Major) Reduce the dose of avacopan to 30 mg once daily if concomitant use of ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avacopan exposure and risk for avacopan-related adverse effects. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avacopan overall exposure 2.19-fold.
Avanafil: (Major) Do not use avanafil in patients receiving ketoconazole due to the risk for increased avanafil serum concentrations and serious adverse reactions. Avanafil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the avanafil AUC by 13-fold.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Axitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after ketoconazole is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Azelastine: (Minor) Theoretically, systemic exposure of nasally administered azelastine may be increased by coadministration with ketoconazole, although an interaction has not been documented.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and ketoconazole is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with ketoconazole increased plasma fluticasone exposure by 1.9-fold with a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol AUC, but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Ketoconazole increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate. (Minor) Theoretically, systemic exposure of nasally administered azelastine may be increased by coadministration with ketoconazole, although an interaction has not been documented.
Azithromycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and azithromycin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If use together is medically necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Bedaquiline: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of bedaquiline and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase bedaquiline exposure and the risk for other adverse effects, including hepatotoxicity. Bedaquiline is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with ketoconazole increased bedaquiline overall exposure by 22%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with ketoconazole may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as sedation and respiratory depression. Consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Discontinuation of ketoconazole in a patient taking benzhydrocodone may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP3A4. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse effects if coadministration is necessary. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and betamethasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and metronidazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation has been reported, particularly when metronidazole was administered with drugs with the potential for prolonging the QT interval, like ketoconazole.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and metronidazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation has been reported, particularly when metronidazole was administered with drugs with the potential for prolonging the QT interval, like ketoconazole.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of bortezomib toxicity and consider a bortezomib dose reduction if coadministration of ketoconazole is necessary. Bortezomib exposure may be increased. Bortezomib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased bortezomib exposure by 35%.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ketoconazole with bosentan is necessary, as the systemic exposure of bosentan may be increased resulting in an increase in bosentan-related adverse reactions; however, a bosentan dose adjustment is not necessary. Administration of bosentan with both ketoconazole and a strong or moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor is not recommended. Bosentan is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the plasma concentrations of bosentan by approximately 2-fold.
Bosutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bosutinib and ketoconazole; bosutinib plasma exposure may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of bosutinib adverse events (e.g., myelosuppression, GI toxicity). Bosutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC of bosutinib by 8.6-fold.
Brentuximab vedotin: (Moderate) Closely monitor for an increase in brentuximab-related adverse reactions, including peripheral neuropathy or gastrointestinal side effects, if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE), one of the 3 components released from brentuximab vedotin, is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased MMAE exposure by approximately 34%.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Reduce the brexpiprazole dose to half the usual dose if coadministered with ketoconazole. Administer one quarter of the usual brexpiprazole dose if the patient is also receiving a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor or is a known poor metabolizer of CYP2D6. If ketoconazole is discontinued, adjust the brexpiprazole dosage to its original level. Brexpiprazole is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of brexpiprazole compared to use of brexpiprazole alone.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with ketoconazole if possible due to increased plasma exposure of brigatinib; an increase in brigatinib-related adverse reactions may occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of brigatinib by approximately 50% without breaking tablets (i.e., from 180 mg to 90 mg; from 90 mg to 60 mg); after discontinuation of ketoconazole, resume the brigatinib dose that was tolerated prior to initiation of ketoconazole. Brigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC and Cmax of brigatinib by 101% and 21%, respectively.
Bromocriptine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bromocriptine and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased bromocriptine exposure which may increase the risk for bromocriptine-related adverse reactions. Bromocriptine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse effects during chronic concomitant use of inhaled or nasal budesonide and ketoconazole. Avoid concomitant use of oral budesonide and ketoconazole. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole has been observed to increase the overall exposure of oral budesonide by 8-fold. The total absolute bioavailability of inhaled and nasal budesonide products ranges from 6% to 39% of the labeled dose.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Formoterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Ketoconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP). (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse effects during chronic concomitant use of inhaled or nasal budesonide and ketoconazole. Avoid concomitant use of oral budesonide and ketoconazole. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole has been observed to increase the overall exposure of oral budesonide by 8-fold. The total absolute bioavailability of inhaled and nasal budesonide products ranges from 6% to 39% of the labeled dose.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Formoterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Ketoconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP). (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse effects during chronic concomitant use of inhaled or nasal budesonide and ketoconazole. Avoid concomitant use of oral budesonide and ketoconazole. Budesonide is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole has been observed to increase the overall exposure of oral budesonide by 8-fold. The total absolute bioavailability of inhaled and nasal budesonide products ranges from 6% to 39% of the labeled dose.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Known inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole, may result in increased systemic levels of bupivacaine when given concurrently, with potential for toxicity.
BUPivacaine: (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Known inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole, may result in increased systemic levels of bupivacaine when given concurrently, with potential for toxicity.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Known inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole, may result in increased systemic levels of bupivacaine when given concurrently, with potential for toxicity.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Known inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole, may result in increased systemic levels of bupivacaine when given concurrently, with potential for toxicity.
Buprenorphine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and buprenorphine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when ketoconazole is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping ketoconazole, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If ketoconazole is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and ketoconazole is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and buprenorphine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when ketoconazole is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping ketoconazole, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If ketoconazole is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and ketoconazole is a CYP3A inhibitor.
busPIRone: (Moderate) A low dose of buspirone used cautiously is recommended when coadministered with ketoconazole. If a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage of buspirone, a dose adjustment of buspirone may be necessary to avoid adverse events attributable to buspirone. Administering ketoconazole with buspirone may increase buspirone concentration and risk for adverse events. Buspirone is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the buspirone AUC by 19-fold with an increased incidence of buspirone-related adverse effects.
Busulfan: (Moderate) Ketoconazole may decrease the clearance of busulfan, resulting in elevated serum concentrations of busulfan. Careful monitoring, with possible dose adjustments, is recommended during coadministration.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ketoconazole may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ketoconazole could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ketoconazole may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ketoconazole could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Cabazitaxel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cabazitaxel with ketoconazole if possible due to increased cabazitaxel exposure. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of cabazitaxel by 25%. Cabazitaxel is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with ketoconazole increased cabazitaxel exposure by 25%.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and rilpivirine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of rilpivirine, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cabozantinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cabozantinib and ketoconazole due to the risk of increased cabozantinib exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of cabozantinib. For patients taking cabozantinib tablets, reduce the dose of cabozantinib by 20 mg; for patients taking cabozantinib capsules, reduce the dose of cabozantinib by 40 mg. Resume the cabozantinib dose that was used prior to initiating treatment with ketoconazole 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of ketoconazole. Cabozantinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased cabozantinib exposure by 38%.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined. (Minor) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been determined.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Calcifediol: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of calcifediol may be necessary during coadministration with ketoconazole. Additionally, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, intact PTH, and calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with ketoconazole. Ketoconazole, which is a cytochrome P450 inhibitor, may inhibit enzymes involved in vitamin D metabolism (CYP24A1 and CYP27B1) and may alter serum concentrations of calcifediol.
Calcitriol: (Moderate) Ketoconazole may inhibit both synthetic and catabolic enzymes of calcitriol. Reductions in endogenous serum calcitriol concentrations have been observed following the the administration of ketoconazole 300 to 1,200 mg/day.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Administer calcium carbonate at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid use of H2-blockers with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair ketoconazole absorption. (Moderate) Administer calcium carbonate at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer calcium carbonate at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Administer calcium carbonate at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Administer calcium carbonate at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Administer calcium carbonate at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capivasertib with ketoconazole due to increased capivasertib exposure which may increase the risk for capivasertib-related adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the dose of capivasertib to 320 mg PO twice daily for 4 days followed by 3 days off; monitor for adverse reactions. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of capivasertib by up to 1.7-fold.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid carbamazepine for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. The exposure of carbamazepine may also be increased. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole and monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely for increased toxicity; adjust dosage for both drugs as clinically indicated. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor; carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer.
Cariprazine: (Major) A cariprazine dosage reduction may be required during concomitant use with ketoconazole. Cariprazine dosage modification recommendations vary by indication, previous exposure to cariprazine, and age. When initiating cariprazine in adults receiving ketoconazole, reduce the cariprazine starting dose to 0.5 mg PO once daily; in adults with schizophrenia or bipolar mania, the cariprazine dose may be increased to 0.75 mg PO once daily, if needed, based on clinical response. Avoid initiating cariprazine in pediatric patients receiving ketoconazole. When adding ketoconazole to a stable dose of cariprazine, reduce the cariprazine dosage: from 1.5 mg or 3 mg once daily to 0.5 mg once daily, from 4.5 or 6 mg once daily to 0.75 mg once daily. Concomitant use increases cariprazine exposure and the risk for cariprazine-related adverse effects. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased cariprazine overall exposure by 2-fold.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ceritinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse events. Both drugs are CYP3A4 substrates and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased ceritinib exposure by 2.9-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid chloramphenicol for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ketoconazole and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlordiazepoxide-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of chlordiazepoxide if necessary. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlordiazepoxide-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of chlordiazepoxide if necessary. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlordiazepoxide-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of chlordiazepoxide if necessary. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Chloroquine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and chloroquine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ketoconazole may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ketoconazole could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ketoconazole is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
chlorproMAZINE: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and chlorpromazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Ciclesonide: (Minor) Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 may increase serum concentrations of ciclesonide and its active metabolite des-ciclesonide. In a drug interaction study, orally inhaled ciclesonide coadministered with oral ketoconazole increased the AUC of des-ciclesonide by approximately 3.6-fold at steady state, while concentrations of ciclesonide remained unchanged.
Cilostazol: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with ketoconazole and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Cimetidine: (Major) Avoid use of H2-blockers with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair ketoconazole absorption.
Cinacalcet: (Moderate) Monitor for cinacalcet-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ketoconazole and adjust dosage as appropriate based on response. Concomitant use may increase cinacalcet exposure. Cinacalcet is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased cinacalcet overall exposure by 127%.
Ciprofloxacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ciprofloxacin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ciprofloxacin may further prolong the QT interval in patients receiving drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as ketoconazole.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of cisapride. Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole causes a mean eight-fold increase in cisapride concentrations.
Citalopram: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and citalopram due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use of citalopram with drugs that cause QT prolongation, such as ketoconazole, can cause additional QT prolongation vs. either drug alone. Pharmacokinetic changes have been studied. Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg) and ketoconazole (200 mg) decreased the Cmax and AUC of ketoconazole by 21% and 10%, respectively, and did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of citalopram.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and clarithromycin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse events. Both ketoconazole and clarithromycin are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in clindamycin-related adverse reactions with coadministration of ketoconazole as concurrent use may increase clindamycin exposure. Clindamycin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) During co-administration of ketoconazole and clobazam, the AUC of clobazam was increased by 54%. However, there were no significant changes in AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylclobazam, the active metabolite of clobazam. No dosage adjustments are recommended by the manufacturer during concurrent use of these agents.
Clofazimine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of clofazimine and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for increased sedation and respiratory depression if clonazepam is coadministered with ketoconazole; adjust the dose of clonazepam if necessary. The systemic exposure of clonazepam may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Clonazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced clopidogrel efficacy during concomitant use of ketoconazole. In a drug interaction study, ketoconazole decreased the active metabolite of clopidogrel.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration of clorazepate with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase clorazepate exposure. Clorazepate is a prodrug whose active metabolite (N-desmethyldiazepam) is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and clozapine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of clozapine, thereby further increasing the risk for adverse events. Clozapine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid cobicistat for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Both ketoconazole and cobicistat are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with cobimetinib due to the increased risk of cobimetinib-related adverse reactions. Cobimetinib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased cobimetinib exposure by 6.7-fold.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ketoconazole may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ketoconazole could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ketoconazole may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ketoconazole could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ketoconazole may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ketoconazole could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ketoconazole may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ketoconazole could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and promethazine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes(TdP). Promethazine has a possible risk for QT prolongation; ketoconazole is known to have a risk for QT prolongation and TdP. If use together is medically necessary it may be advisable to monitor ECG and serum electrolytes. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ketoconazole may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ketoconazole could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and promethazine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes(TdP). Promethazine has a possible risk for QT prolongation; ketoconazole is known to have a risk for QT prolongation and TdP. If use together is medically necessary it may be advisable to monitor ECG and serum electrolytes. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ketoconazole may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ketoconazole could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ketoconazole is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase colchicine overall exposure by 3.1-fold.
Conivaptan: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of conivaptan and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the potential for increased conivaptan exposure. Conivaptan is a CYP3A substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of oral conivaptan by 11-fold.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by CYP3A4. Therefore, inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole, may increase the exposure of conjugated estrogens resulting in an increased risk of endometrial hyperplasia. Therefore, for chronically administered CYP3A4 inhibitors ( > 30 days) concurrently administered with conjugated estrogens, adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated by signs and symptoms of endometrial hyperplasia, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by CYP3A4. Therefore, inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole, may increase the exposure of conjugated estrogens resulting in an increased risk of endometrial hyperplasia. Therefore, for chronically administered CYP3A4 inhibitors ( > 30 days) concurrently administered with conjugated estrogens, adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated by signs and symptoms of endometrial hyperplasia, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ketoconazole with medroxyprogesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of medroxyprogesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Medroxyprogesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A4 and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Minor) In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by CYP3A4. Therefore, inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole, may increase the exposure of conjugated estrogens resulting in an increased risk of endometrial hyperplasia. Therefore, for chronically administered CYP3A4 inhibitors ( > 30 days) concurrently administered with conjugated estrogens, adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated by signs and symptoms of endometrial hyperplasia, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding.
Copanlisib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of copanlisib and ketoconazole if possible; increased copanlisib exposure may occur. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the copanlisib dose to 45 mg and monitor patients for copanlisib-related adverse events (e.g., hypertension, infection, and skin rash). Copanlisib is a CYP3A substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Contraindicated) Ketoconazole use is contraindicated with medications that may prolong the QT/QTc interval that are also CYP3A substrates, such as crizotinib, due to the risk for increase crizotinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). While coadministration is not recommended, if use is necessary, a crizotinib dosage reduction is required; specific dosage adjustment recommendations are dependent on age, indication, and body surface area (BSA). For adult patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) or inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMT), decrease the crizotinib dose to 250 mg once daily. For pediatric patients or young adults with anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) or IMT, BSA-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Crizotinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use has been observed to increase crizotinib overall exposure by 216%.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Avoid if possible; monitor for dabigatran side effects if use with ketoconazole is necessary. For specific dosage recommendations based on the indication for which dabigatran has been prescribed and the patient's renal function, it is best to consult the product label. P-gp inhibition and impaired renal function are the major independent factors that result in increased exposure to dabigatran. Concomitant use of P-gp inhibitors in patients with renal impairment is expected to produce increased exposure of dabigatran compared to that seen with either factor alone. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with multiple daily doses of 400 mg ketoconazole increased dabigatran AUC by 153%.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dabrafenib and ketoconazole due to increased dabrafenib exposure. If another agent cannot be substituted and coadministration of these agents is unavoidable, monitor patients closely for dabrafenib adverse reactions including skin toxicity, ocular toxicity, and cardiotoxicity. Dabrafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the dabrafenib AUC by 71%, hydroxy-dabrafenib AUC by 82%, and desmethyl-dabrafenib AUC by 68%.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Major) Saxagliptin is a p-glycoprotein substrate, and the metabolism of saxagliptin is primarily mediated by CYP3A4/5. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of both p-glycoprotein and CYP3A4/5. Saxagliptin did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of ketoconazole, but coadministration increased the maximum serum saxagliptin concentration by 62% and the systemic exposure by 2.5-fold. As expected, the maximum serum concentration of the saxagliptin active metabolite was decreased by 95% and the systemic exposure was decreased by 91%. In another study, the maximum serum saxagliptin concentration increased by 2.4-fold and the systemic exposure increased by 3.4-fold. The saxagliptin dose is limited to 2.5 mg once daily when coadministered with a strong CYP 3A4/5 inhibitor such as ketoconazole.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daraxonrasib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased daraxonrasib exposure which may increase the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased daraxonrasib overall exposure by 5.1-fold.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daridorexant and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase daridorexant exposure and the risk for daridorexant-related adverse effects. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased daridorexant overall exposure by over 400%.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Do not exceed a dose of 7.5 mg/day of darifenacin when administered with ketoconazole due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Darolutamide: (Moderate) Monitor patients more frequently for darolutamide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary due to the risk of increased darolutamide exposure; decrease the dose of darolutamide for grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions or for otherwise intolerable adverse reactions. Ketoconazole is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; darolutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with another combined P-gp inhibitor and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean AUC and Cmax of darolutamide by 1.7-fold and 1.4-fold, respectively.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid darunavir for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Both ketoconazole and darunavir are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid cobicistat for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Both ketoconazole and cobicistat are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Major) Avoid darunavir for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Both ketoconazole and darunavir are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid cobicistat for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Both ketoconazole and cobicistat are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Major) Avoid darunavir for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Both ketoconazole and darunavir are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dasatinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and dasatinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of dasatinib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider a dasatinib dose reduction to 40 mg PO daily if original dose was 140 mg daily, 20 mg PO daily if original dose was 100 mg daily, or 20 mg PO daily if original dose was 70 mg daily. Stop dasatinib during use of ketoconazole in patients receiving dasatinib 60 mg or 40 mg PO daily. If dasatinib is not tolerated after dose reduction, either discontinue ketoconazole or stop dasatinib until ketoconazole is discontinued. Allow a washout of approximately 1 week after ketoconazole is stopped before increasing the dasatinib dose or reinitiating dasatinib. Dasatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole increased the mean Cmax and AUC of dasatinib by 4-fold and 5-fold, respectively.
Deflazacort: (Major) Decrease deflazacort dose to one third of the recommended dosage when coadministered with ketoconazole. Concurrent use may significantly increase concentrations of 21-desDFZ, the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in an increased risk of toxicity. Deflazacort is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Administration of deflazacort with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased total exposure to 21-desDFZ by about 3-fold.
Degarelix: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Desflurane: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Deutetrabenazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and deutetrabenazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with deutetrabenazine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for steroid-related adverse reactions if coadministration of ketoconazole with dexamethasone is necessary, due to increased dexamethasone exposure; Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression could potentially occur with long-term use. Consider the use of corticosteroids such as beclomethasone and prednisolone, whose concentrations are less affected by strong CYP3A inhibitors, especially for long-term use. Dexamethasone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects.
Dexlansoprazole: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and quinidine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use increases diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for diazoxide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase diazoxide exposure. Diazoxide is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor was predicted to increase diazoxide overall exposure by 1.1- to 2-fold.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and ketoconazole together with caution. Dichlorphenamide increases potassium excretion and can cause hypokalemia and should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause hypokalemia including antifungals. Measure potassium concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If hypokalemia occurs or persists, consider reducing the dichlorphenamide dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Minor) As ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4 activity, serum estrogen concentrations and estrogenic-related side effects (e.g., nausea, breast tenderness) may potentially increase when coadministered with either estrogens or combined hormonal contraceptives. (Minor) Estradiol valerate and dienogest are both substrates of CYP3A4. Certain azole antifungals, including fluconazole, itraconazole, ketonconazole, miconazole (systemic formulation only), posaconazole, and voriconazole, are CYP3A4 inhibitors and therefore may inhibit the metabolism of dienogest; estradiol valerate, possibly leading to increased serum concentrations. In a pharmacokinetic study evaluating the effect of ketoconazole on dienogest and estradiol, co-administration with ketoconazole increased the AUC at steady-state for dienogest and estradiol by 2.86 and 1.57-fold, respectively. There was also a 1.94 and 1.65-fold increase of Cmax at steady-state for dienogest and estradiol when co-administered with ketoconazole.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing ketoconazole. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ketoconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate if coadministration of diltiazem with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may result in elevated diltiazem concentrations. An adjustment in the diltiazem dose may be warranted. Diltiazem is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and disopyramide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
DOCEtaxel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of docetaxel with ketoconazole if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of docetaxel. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for docetaxel-related adverse reactions and consider a 50% dose reduction of docetaxel. Docetaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use with ketoconazole increased docetaxel exposure by 2.2-fold.
Dofetilide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and dofetilide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of dofetilide, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Dofetilide is a substrate of OCT2 and ketoconazole is an inhibitor of this drug transporter. CYP3A4 inhibition by ketoconazole may also contribute. Coadministration with ketoconazole for 7 days has been shown to increase dofetilide AUC by 41% in males and 69% in females.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and rilpivirine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of rilpivirine, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Donepezil: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and donepezil due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of donepezil, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Donepezil is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased mean donepezil concentrations by 36%.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and donepezil due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of donepezil, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Donepezil is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased mean donepezil concentrations by 36%.
Doravirine: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ketoconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ketoconazole increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ketoconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ketoconazole increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. (Minor) Coadministration of doravirine and ketoconazole may result in increased doravirine plasma concentrations. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent use of ketoconazole increased doravirine exposure by more than 3-fold; however, this increase was not considered clinically significant.
Dordaviprone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 375 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased dordaviprone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension if coadministration of doxazosin and ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may result in increased doxazosin exposure. Doxazosin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) CYP450 inhibitors such as ketoconazole may inhibit the 25-hydroxylation of doxercalciferol and thus reduce the formation of active doxercalciferol moiety, which may reduce efficacy of doxercalciferol. If a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with a CYP450 inhibitor, dose adjustment of doxercalciferol may be necessary. Monitor intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations closely. Doxercalciferol is activated by CYP 27 in the liver to form 1-alpha,25-(OH)2D2 (major metabolite) and 1-alpha,24-dihydroxyvitamin D2 (minor metabolite). Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Ketoconazole is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor; doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Concurrent use of CYP3A4 or P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Ketoconazole is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor; doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Concurrent use of CYP3A4 or P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence) of dronabinol if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase the exposure of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of dronedarone, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased dronedarone exposure by approximately 17-fold.
droPERidol: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and droperidol due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of droperidol, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Droperidol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in drospirenone-related adverse effects if coadministered with ketoconazole. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take drospirenone and ketoconazole long-term. Drospirenone is a CYP3A4 substrate that has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4; coadministration of ketoconazole with drospirenone resulted in a moderate increase of drospirenone exposure.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in drospirenone-related adverse effects if coadministered with ketoconazole. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take drospirenone and ketoconazole long-term. Drospirenone is a CYP3A4 substrate that has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4; coadministration of ketoconazole with drospirenone resulted in a moderate increase of drospirenone exposure.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in drospirenone-related adverse effects if coadministered with ketoconazole. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take drospirenone and ketoconazole long-term. Drospirenone is a CYP3A4 substrate that has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4; coadministration of ketoconazole with drospirenone resulted in a moderate increase of drospirenone exposure. (Minor) As ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4 activity, serum estrogen concentrations and estrogenic-related side effects (e.g., nausea, breast tenderness) may potentially increase when coadministered with either estrogens or combined hormonal contraceptives.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in drospirenone-related adverse effects if coadministered with ketoconazole. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take drospirenone and ketoconazole long-term. Drospirenone is a CYP3A4 substrate that has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4; coadministration of ketoconazole with drospirenone resulted in a moderate increase of drospirenone exposure. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in drospirenone-related adverse effects if coadministered with ketoconazole. Consider monitoring serum potassium concentrations during the first month of dosing in high-risk patients who take drospirenone and ketoconazole long-term. Drospirenone is a CYP3A4 substrate that has antimineralocorticoid effects; the progestin may increase serum potassium. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4; coadministration of ketoconazole with drospirenone resulted in a moderate increase of drospirenone exposure. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Dutasteride: (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary due to a potential for increased dutasteride exposure. Dutasteride is extensively metabolized in humans by CYP3A4/3A5 isoenzymes. The effect of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied. Because of the potential for drug-drug interactions, use caution when prescribing dutasteride to patients taking potent, chronic CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitors like ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ketoconazole is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations are expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. Coadministration with ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin 2.2 and 2.8-fold, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary due to a potential for increased dutasteride exposure. Dutasteride is extensively metabolized in humans by CYP3A4/3A5 isoenzymes. The effect of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied. Because of the potential for drug-drug interactions, use caution when prescribing dutasteride to patients taking potent, chronic CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitors like ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Major) Reduce duvelisib dose to 15 mg PO twice daily and monitor for increased toxicity when coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase the exposure of duvelisib. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The increase in exposure to duvelisib is estimated to be approximately 2-fold when used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as ketoconazole.
Edoxaban: (Major) Reduce the dose of edoxaban to 30 mg/day PO in patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism and receiving concomitant therapy with oral ketoconazole. No dosage adjustment is required in patients with atrial fibrillation. Edoxaban is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and oral ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of ketoconazole; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and efavirenz due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may decrease the exposure of ketoconazole, reducing its efficacy. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and efavirenz due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may decrease the exposure of ketoconazole, reducing its efficacy. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and efavirenz due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may decrease the exposure of ketoconazole, reducing its efficacy. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elacestrant and ketoconazole due to the risk of increased elacestrant exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elacestrant overall exposure by 5.3-fold.
Elagolix: (Major) Concomitant use of elagolix 200 mg twice daily and ketoconazole for more than 1 month is not recommended. Limit concomitant use of elagolix 150 mg once daily and ketoconazole to 6 months. Coadministration may increase elagolix exposure. Elagolix is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC of elagolix by 120%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Concomitant use of elagolix 200 mg twice daily and ketoconazole for more than 1 month is not recommended. Limit concomitant use of elagolix 150 mg once daily and ketoconazole to 6 months. Coadministration may increase elagolix exposure. Elagolix is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC of elagolix by 120%. (Minor) As ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4 activity, serum estrogen concentrations and estrogenic-related side effects (e.g., nausea, breast tenderness) may potentially increase when coadministered with either estrogens or combined hormonal contraceptives.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Concomitant use of elbasvir and ketoconazole is not recommended. Use of these drugs together may significantly increase the exposure of elbasvir, resulting in adverse effects (i.e., elevated ALT concentrations and hepatotoxicity). Elbasvir is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased elbasvir exposure by almost 2-fold. (Major) Concomitant use of grazoprevir and ketoconazole is not recommended. Use of these drugs together may significantly increase the exposure of grazoprevir, resulting in adverse effects (i.e., elevated ALT concentrations and hepatotoxicity). Grazoprevir is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased grazoprevir exposure by 3-fold.
Eletriptan: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of ketoconazole due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) If ketoconazole and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor to twice a week in the morning, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4) when coadministered with ketoconazole; omit the evening dose of ivacaftor. Coadministration may increase elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. Elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elexacaftor exposure by 2.8- fold, tezacaftor exposure by 4.5-fold; ketoconazole has been observed to increase ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of tezacaftor; ivacaftor when coadministered with ketoconazole; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet twice a week, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tezacaftor and ivacaftor exposure 4- and 15.6-fold, respectively.
Eliglustat: (Contraindicated) In intermediate or poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (IMs or PMs), coadministration of ketoconazole and eliglustat is contraindicated. In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs), coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. The coadministration of eliglustat with both ketoconazole and a moderate or strong CYP2D6 inhibitor is contraindicated in all patients. Both eliglustat and ketoconazole can independently prolong the QT interval, and coadministration increases this risk. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors increases eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias); this risk is the highest in CYP2D6 IMs and PMs because a larger portion of the eliglustat dose is metabolized via CYP3A. Although ketoconazole's product labeling states that coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval and are metabolized by CYP3A is contraindicated, the specific interaction between ketoconazole and eliglustat was studied during clinical trials. The resultant data supports eliglustat dosage reduction in EMs instead of contraindication. During clinical trials in EMs (n = 31), Cmax and AUC increased 4-fold and 4.4-fold, respectively, after co-administration of eliglustat 84 mg PO twice daily with ketoconazole 400 mg once daily. Physiology-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models suggest that ketoconazole may increase the Cmax and AUC of eliglustat 4.4- and 5.4-fold, respectively, in IMs. PBPK suggests ketoconazole may increase the Cmax and AUC of eliglustat 4.3- and 6.2-fold, respectively, when administered with eliglustat 84 mg PO once daily in PMs. In addition, PBPK modeling suggests concomitant use of eliglustat (84 mg PO twice daily) with a strong 2D6 inhibitor and ketoconazole (strong 3A4 inhibitor) may increase the Cmax and AUC of eliglustat 16.7- and 24.2-fold, respectively, in EMs and 7.5- and 9.8-fold, respectively, in IMs.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased elinzanetant exposure which may increase the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased elinzanetant overall exposure by 6.3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid cobicistat for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Both ketoconazole and cobicistat are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Major) Coadministration of ketoconazole with elvitegravir may result in increased plasma concentrations of both drugs. During concurrent use, a maximum ketoconazole dose of 200 mg/day is recommended. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid cobicistat for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Both ketoconazole and cobicistat are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Major) Coadministration of ketoconazole with elvitegravir may result in increased plasma concentrations of both drugs. During concurrent use, a maximum ketoconazole dose of 200 mg/day is recommended. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and rilpivirine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of rilpivirine, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and rilpivirine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of rilpivirine, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Contraindicated) Ketoconazole use is contraindicated with other medications that may prolong the QT interval, such as encorafenib. Avoid concomitant use of encorafenib and ketoconazole due to the risk for decreased ketoconazole exposure, increased encorafenib exposure, and increased risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for altered response to ketoconazole and increase dose if needed. An encorafenib dosage decrease is also required: reduce a daily dose of 450 mg to 150 mg, reduce the daily dose to 75 mg for all other dosages. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications may prolong the QT interval. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased encorafenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Enfortumab vedotin: (Moderate) Closely monitor for signs of enfortumab vedotin-related adverse reactions if concurrent use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase unconjugated monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) exposure, which may increase the incidence or severity of enfortumab-vedotin toxicities. MMAE, the microtubule-disrupting component of enfortumab vedotin, is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ketoconazole is a dual P-gp/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Based on physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling predictions, concomitant use of enfortumab vedotin with another dual P-gp/strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the exposure of unconjugated MMAE by 38%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with ketoconazole due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid use of ensitrelvir for 2 weeks before and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ketoconazole exposure and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Entecavir: (Moderate) Both entecavir and ketoconazole are secreted by active tubular secretion. In theory, coadministration of entecavir with ketoconazole may increase the serum concentrations of either drug due to competition for the drug elimination pathway. The manufacturer of entecavir recommends monitoring for adverse effects when these drugs are coadministered.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of entrectinib with ketoconazole due to the risk for increased entrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is necessary in adults and pediatric patients 2 years and older, reduce the dose of entrectinib (600 mg/day to 100 mg/day; 400 mg or 300 mg/day to 50 mg/day; 200 mg/day to 50 mg every other day) and limit coadministration to 14 days or less. For pediatric patients with a starting dose less than 200 mg, avoid coadministration. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Entrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of entrectinib by 6-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid enzalutamide for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Eplerenone: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone is contraindicated for use with ketoconazole due to increased eplerenone exposure which increases the risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension. Eplerenone is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased serum eplerenone concentrations by roughly 5-fold.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for erdafitinib-related adverse reactions and consider dose modifications as clinically appropriate. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased erdafitinib overall exposure by 134%.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ketoconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ketoconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
eriBULin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and eribulin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with ketoconazole if possible due to the increased risk of erlotinib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable and severe reactions occur, reduce the dose of erlotinib by 50 mg decrements. Erlotinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased erlotinib exposure by 67%.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Erythromycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and erythromycin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. In addition, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, and may increase exposure to erythromycin, a CYP3A4 substrate.
Escitalopram: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and escitalopram due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ketoconazole is associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has been reported postmarketing with escitalopram. Pharmacokinetic interactions are not expected based on studies with citalopram.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for estazolam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In vivo drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted between estazolam and inhibitors of CYP3A.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as systemic azole antifungals (fluconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole, miconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole) may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Minor) Estrogens are partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 such as systemic azole antifungals (fluconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole, miconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole) may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and cause estrogen-related side effects such as nausea and breast tenderness. Patients receiving estrogens should be monitored for an increase in adverse events.
Estradiol: (Minor) As ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4 activity, serum estrogen concentrations and estrogenic-related side effects (e.g., nausea, breast tenderness) may potentially increase when coadministered with either estrogens or combined hormonal contraceptives.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Minor) As ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4 activity, serum estrogen concentrations and estrogenic-related side effects (e.g., nausea, breast tenderness) may potentially increase when coadministered with either estrogens or combined hormonal contraceptives.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Minor) As ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4 activity, serum estrogen concentrations and estrogenic-related side effects (e.g., nausea, breast tenderness) may potentially increase when coadministered with either estrogens or combined hormonal contraceptives.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Minor) As ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4 activity, serum estrogen concentrations and estrogenic-related side effects (e.g., nausea, breast tenderness) may potentially increase when coadministered with either estrogens or combined hormonal contraceptives.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ketoconazole with progesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Progesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A4. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone. (Minor) As ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4 activity, serum estrogen concentrations and estrogenic-related side effects (e.g., nausea, breast tenderness) may potentially increase when coadministered with either estrogens or combined hormonal contraceptives.
Eszopiclone: (Major) The total dose of eszopiclone should not exceed 2 mg when administered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase eszopiclone exposure resulting in increased risk of next-day psychomotor or memory impairment and decreased ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. CYP3A4 is a primary metabolic pathway for eszopiclone; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased eszopiclone exposure by 2.2-fold.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking ketoconazole. A disulfiram-like reaction has rarely been reported when alcohol was consumed concurrently with ketoconazole. Symptoms include facial flushing, difficult breathing, slight fever, and tightness of the chest. This reaction usually resolves spontaneously within 24 hours, with no lasting effects. (Moderate) Monitor for a disulfiram-like reaction if alcohol ablation therapy is required in patients receiving ketoconazole. A disulfiram-like reaction following alcohol consumption has been observed in patients on ketoconazole.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Etonogestrel: (Minor) Coadministration of etonogestrel and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole may increase the serum concentration of etonogestrel.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Coadministration of etonogestrel and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole may increase the serum concentration of etonogestrel.
Etrasimod: (Contraindicated) Ketoconazole is contraindicated with other medications that may cause QT/QTc interval prolongation, such as etrasimod. Additionally, use may increase etrasimod exposure and the risk for etrasimod-related adverse effects especially in patients who are CYP2C9 poor metabolizers. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in etravirine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Etravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased etravirine exposure by 1.4-fold.
Everolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of everolimus with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased everolimus-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable in patients receiving everolimus for either kidney or liver transplant, closely monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the Cmax, AUC, and half-life of everolimus by 3.9-fold, 15-fold, and 89%, respectively.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of simvastatin and ketoconazole is contraindicated. The risk of developing myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, and acute renal failure is increased if simvastatin is administered concomitantly with potent CYP3A inhibitors such as ketoconazole. If therapy with ketoconazole is unavoidable, simvastatin therapy must be suspended during the course of ketoconazole treatment. There are no known adverse effects with short-term discontinuation of simvastatin.
Famotidine: (Major) Avoid use of H2-blockers with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair ketoconazole absorption.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fedratinib with ketoconazole as concurrent use may increase fedratinib exposure. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of fedratinib to 200 mg PO once daily. If ketoconazole is discontinued, increase the fedratinib dose as follows: 300 mg PO once daily for 2 weeks and then 400 mg PO once daily thereafter as tolerated. Fedratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily with a single 300-mg dose of fedratinib increased the fedratinib AUC(inf) by 3-fold. The expected steady-state fedratinib AUC increase is 2-fold when fedratinib 400 mg/day is coadministered with ketoconazole 400 mg/day based on pharmacokinetic modeling and simulations.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and ketoconazole should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent use of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and half-life by approximately 8-fold and 2-fold, respectively.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. If ketoconazole is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If ketoconazole is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fesoterodine: (Major) Limit the dose of fesoterodine to 4 mg once daily in adults and pediatric patients weighing more than 35 kg if coadministered with ketoconazole. Avoid use of fesoterodine and ketoconazole in pediatric patients weighing 25 to 35 kg. Concurrent use may increase fesoterodine exposure. Fesoterodine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole led to approximately a doubling of the overall exposure of 5-hydroxymethyl tolterodine (5-HMT), the active metabolite of fesoterodine.
Fexinidazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and fexinidazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites, decreasing its efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Fexofenadine: (Minor) Ketoconazole may inhibit the metabolism of fexofenadine via its effects on the CYP3A4 isozyme of the cytochrome P-450 microsomal enzyme system.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Ketoconazole may inhibit the metabolism of fexofenadine via its effects on the CYP3A4 isozyme of the cytochrome P-450 microsomal enzyme system.
Fidanacogene Elaparvovec: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fidanacogene elaparvovec and ketoconazole. Both medications have been associated with hepatic injury and concomitant use may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Hepatic injury may also decrease the efficacy of fidanacogene elaparvovec.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and ketoconazole for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of ketoconazole for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Concurrent use may increase systemic exposure to tadalafil resulting in adverse effects including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole 200 mg and 400 mg daily increased tadalafil AUC by 107% and 312%, respectively.
Finerenone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of finerenone and ketoconazole is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk for finerenone-related adverse reactions. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by more than 400%.
Fingolimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and fingolimod due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Flecainide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and flecainide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Flibanserin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of flibanserin and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole is contraindicated due to increased flibanserin concentrations, which can cause severe hypotension and syncope. If initiating flibanserin following the use of ketoconazole, start flibanserin at least 2 weeks after the last dose of ketoconazole. If initiating ketoconazole following flibanserin use, begin therapy at least 2 days after the last dose of flibanserin. In cases where the benefit of initiating ketoconazole therapy within 2 days of stopping flibanserin clearly outweighs the risk of flibanserin-related hypotension and syncope, monitor the patient for signs of hypotension and syncope. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased flibanserin exposure by 4.5-fold.
FLUoxetine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and fluoextine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ketoconazole has a known risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Postmarketing cases of QT interval prolongation and ventricular arrhythmia including TdP have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine.
fluPHENAZine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and fluphenazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flurazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase flurazepam exposure. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Fluticasone: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and ketoconazole is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with ketoconazole increased plasma fluticasone exposure by 1.9-fold with a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol AUC, but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Ketoconazole increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of salmeterol with ketoconazole. Concomitant use increases salmeterol exposure and may increase the incidence and severity of salmeterol-related adverse effects. Signs and symptoms of excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation commonly include tachyarrhythmias, hypertension, and tremor. Salmeterol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased salmeterol overall exposure 16-fold mainly due to increased bioavailability of the swallowed portion of the dose. (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and ketoconazole is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with ketoconazole increased plasma fluticasone exposure by 1.9-fold with a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol AUC, but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Ketoconazole increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and ketoconazole is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with ketoconazole increased plasma fluticasone exposure by 1.9-fold with a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol AUC, but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Ketoconazole increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects, including increased heart rate and QT prolongation, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol. Vilanterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Major) Coadministration of inhaled fluticasone propionate and ketoconazole is not recommended; use caution with inhaled fluticasone furoate. Increased systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, may occur. Fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with ketoconazole increased plasma fluticasone exposure by 1.9-fold with a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol AUC, but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Ketoconazole increased fluticasone furoate exposure by 1.33-fold with a 27% reduction in weighted mean serum cortisol; this change does not necessitate dose adjustment of fluticasone furoate. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects, including increased heart rate and QT prolongation, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol. Vilanterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
fluvoxaMINE: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and fluvoxamine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Fomepizole: (Minor) Drugs that inhibit the cytochrome P450 enzyme system, such as ketoconazole, may decrease the rate of elimination of fomepizole.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use during ketoconazole treatment. Concomitant use may alter the exposure of some cannabinoids and increase the risk for adverse reactions. The cannabinoids delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are CYP3A substrates and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of a cannabinoid product containing THC and CBD at an approximate 1:1 ratio with ketoconazole increased THC, 11-OH-THC, and CBD peak exposures by 1.3-, 3-, and 1.9-fold respectively.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Formoterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Ketoconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Formoterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Ketoconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP). (Moderate) Monitor for steroid-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mometasone with ketoconazole is necessary, due to increased mometasone exposure; Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression could potentially occur with long-term use. Mometasone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of both drugs if fosamprenavir is coadministered with ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be needed for patients receiving more than 400 mg/day. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of both drugs. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor; ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Foscarnet: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and foscarnet due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Fosfomycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) The use of fosphenytoin within 2 weeks of ketoconazole therapy is not recommended. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole and increase the dose of ketoconazole as necessary. Monitor phenytoin concentrations during concomitant therapy due to risk for phenytoin toxicity. Concomitant use may increase phenytoin concentrations. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for fostamatinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased tamatinib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Fostemsavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and fostemsavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Futibatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of futibatinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased futibatinib exposure which may increase the risk for futibatinib-related adverse effects. Futibatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased futibatinib overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Gefitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased gefitinib exposure by 80%.
Gemifloxacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and gemifloxacin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and gemtuzumab due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Gepirone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 5-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of gepotidacin and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase gepotidacin exposure and the risk for other gepotidacin-related adverse effects. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased gepotidacin overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Gilteritinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and gilteritinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of gilteritinib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Gilteritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the gilteritinib AUC by 120% in a drug interaction study.
Givinostat: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of givinostat and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and glasdegib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of glasdegib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Glasdegib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the glasdegib AUC by 2.4-fold.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of glecaprevir and ketoconazole as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of glecaprevir and increase the risk of adverse effects. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Formoterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Ketoconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Goserelin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Granisetron: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and granisetron due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during ketoconazole treatment due to the risk of increased ketoconazole exposure and adverse reactions. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
guanFACINE: (Major) If coadministration of ketoconazole with extended-release (ER) guanfacine is necessary, it is recommended to reduce the guanfacine dosage to half of the recommended dose for age and weight. Specific recommendations for immediate-release (IR) guanfacine are not available. Monitor patients closely for adverse effects including hypotension, drowsiness, lethargy, and bradycardia. If ketoconazole is discontinued, the guanfacine ER dosage should be increased back to the recommended dose. Guanfacine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Ketoconazole may significantly increase guanfacine plasma concentrations, as indicated in pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies.
H2-blockers: (Major) Avoid use of H2-blockers with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair ketoconazole absorption.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Haloperidol: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and haloperidol due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of haloperidol, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Haloperidol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Histrelin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ketoconazole is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ketoconazole is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ketoconazole is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if hydrocortisone is used with ketoconazole. Concurrent use may increase hydrocortisone exposure. Hydrocortisone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole use been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and hydroxychloroquine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
hydrOXYzine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and hydroxyzine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ketoconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and TdP; cases of QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of hydroxyzine, particularly in patients with other risk factors for QT prolongation/TdP.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased iberdomide overall exposure by 2.4-fold.
Ibrexafungerp: (Major) Decrease the ibrexafungerp dose to 150 mg PO every 12 hours for 1 day if administered concomitantly with ketoconazole. In a drug interaction study, the AUC and Cmax of ibrexafungerp increased by 5.8-fold and 2.5-fold, respectively, when coadministered with ketoconazole. Ibrexafungerp is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibrutinib and ketoconazole; ibrutinib plasma concentrations may increase resulting in severe ibrutinib toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, bleeding, infection). If short-term use of ketoconazole is necessary (e.g., 7 days or less), interrupt ibrutinib treatment. Resume ibrutinib at the previous dose when ketoconazole is discontinued. Ibrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. When ibrutinib was administered with multiple doses of ketoconazole, the Cmax and AUC values of ibrutinib increased by 29-fold and 24-fold, respectively.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Avoid use of H2-blockers with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair ketoconazole absorption.
Ibutilide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ibutilide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid idelalisib for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions (e.g., hepatotoxicity, diarrhea, neutropenia, and infection); a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Both ketoconazole and idelalisib are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased increased idelalisib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of ifosfamide if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Ifosfamide is metabolized by CYP3A4 to its active alkylating metabolites. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of these active metabolites, decreasing the effectiveness of ifosfamide treatment.
Iloperidone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and iloperidone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of iloperidone, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Reduce the iloperidone dose by one-half if concomitant use is necessary. If ketoconazole is discontinued, increase the iloperidone dose to the previous level. Iloperidone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC of iloperidone and its metabolites P88 and P95 by 57%, 55% and 35%, respectively.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in imatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Imatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased imatinib exposure by 40%.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk for adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of infigratinib by 622%.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and inotuzumab due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Irinotecan Liposomal: (Major) Avoid administration of ketoconazole during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 1 week prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are CYP3A4 substrates. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase systemic exposure to both irinotecan and SN-38.
Irinotecan: (Major) Avoid administration of ketoconazole during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 1 week prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are CYP3A4 substrates. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase systemic exposure to both irinotecan and SN-38.
Isavuconazonium: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased isavuconazole serum concentrations and serious adverse reactions, such as hepatic toxicity. Isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a sensitive substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. According to the manufacturer, coadministration of isavuconazole with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated. Isavuconazole serum concentrations were increased 5-fold when codadministered with ketoconazole. Elevated ketoconazole concentrations would also be expected with coadministration, as ketoconazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and isavuconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Isoflurane: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of isonazid for 2 weeks before and during treatment with ketoconazole. The product labels note that isoniazid may decrease the biovailability of ketoconazole or induce CYP3A4 resulting in antifungal treatment failure. If coadministration is necessary, monitor the antifungal activity of ketoconazole and increase the dose as necessary.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Istradefylline: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with ketoconazole as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with ketoconazole in a drug interaction study.
Itraconazole: (Major) Typically ketoconazole and itraconazole would not be used in combination due to similar mechanisms of action and indications for use (duplicate therapies). Both itraconazole and ketoconazole are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A4; taking these drugs together may increase the serum concentrations of both drugs. Furthermore, all systemic azole antifungal agents have been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Coadministration would increase the risk of QT prolongation.
Ivabradine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ivabradine and ketoconazole is contraindicated. Ivabradine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration will increase the plasma concentrations of ivabradine. Increased ivabradine concentrations may result in bradycardia exacerbation and conduction disturbances.
Ivacaftor: (Major) If ketoconazole and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ivosidenib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If coadministered, decreased ketoconazole exposure and loss of antifungal efficacy may occur. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of ivosidenib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ivosidenib to 250 mg PO once daily. Monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes, correcting any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. If ketoconazole is discontinued, wait at least 5 half-lives of ketoconazole before increasing the dose of ivosidenib to the recommended dose of 500 mg PO once daily. Ivosidenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased ivosidenib single-dose AUC to 269% of control, with no change in Cmax. Because ivosidenib induces CYP3A4, it is also expected to decrease steady-state exposure to CYP3A4 substrates, such as ketoconazole, to a clinically relevant extent.
Ixabepilone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ixabepilone with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg per meters-squared. Monitor for neuropathy, GI symptoms, and myelosuppression. If the strong inhibitor is discontinued, increase the ixabepilone dose (at 1 week after discontinuing the inhibitor) to that was used before starting the strong inhibitor. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of lacosamide and ketoconazole, particularly in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Lacosamide is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may have significantly increased exposure to lacosamide if coadminsitered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dosage reduction of lacosamide may be necessary in this population.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and clarithromycin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse events. Both ketoconazole and clarithromycin are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lapatinib with ketoconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib; QT prolongation may also occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, decrease the dose of lapatinib to 500 mg PO once daily. Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If ketoconazole is discontinued, increase lapatinib to the indicated dose after a washout period of approximately 1 week. Lapatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and TdP have also been reported in postmarketing experience. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use with ketoconazole increased lapatinib exposure by 3.6-fold and increased the half-life of lapatinib by 1.7-fold.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with larotrectinib due to the risk of increased larotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of larotrectinib by 50%. After ketoconazole has been discontinued for 3 to 5 elimination half-lives, resume the larotrectinib dose taken prior to initiating ketoconazole. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the larotrectinib AUC by 4.3-fold.
Lefamulin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and lefamulin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of lefamulin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Lefamulin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole increased the exposure of oral and intravenous lefamulin by 165% and 31%, respectively.
Leflunomide: (Moderate) A pharmacodynamic interaction may occur when leflunomide is given concomitantly with other hepatotoxic drugs, such as ketoconazole, The potential for hepatotoxicity should also be considered when ketoconazole would be prescribed after leflunomide administration has ceased, if the patient has not received the leflunomide elimination procedure.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and ketoconazole as concurrent use is expected to significantly increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of lemborexant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the lemborexant AUC by up to 4.5-fold.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of leniolisib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased leniolisib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Leniolisib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased leniolisib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Lenvatinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and lenvatinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of ketoconazole may occur if given with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, monitor closely for increased or prolonged pharmacologic effects of ketoconazole; the ketoconazole dose should be decreased as deemed necessary. When appropriate, ketoconazole plasma concentrations should be measured. Ketoconazole is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; therefore, the magnitude of the interaction may be amplified.
Leuprolide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
levoFLOXacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and levofloxacin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ketoconazole is associated with QT prolongation and TdP; levofloxacin has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and infrequent cases of arrhythmia and rare cases of TdP have been spontaneously reported during postmarketing surveillance.
Levomilnacipran: (Major) Do not exceed a levomilnacipran dose of 80 mg once daily if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase levomilnacipran exposure. Levomilnacipran is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased levomilnacipran exposure by about 50%.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and ketoconazole may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and ketoconazole may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and ketoconazole may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Lithium: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and lithium due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Lithium has been associated with QT prolongation; ketoconazole is associated with QT prolongation and TdP.
Lofexidine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and lofexidine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lomitapide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ketoconazole and lomitapide is contraindicated. If treatment with ketoconazole is unavoidable, lomitapide should be stopped during the course of treatment. The exposure to lomitapide was increased 27-fold in the presence of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and ketoconazole is contraindicated; concurrent use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of adverse effects. Both lonafarnib and ketoconazole are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the exposure of lonafarnib by 425%.
Loperamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of loperamide and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of loperamide and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 3.8-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and lopinavir; ritonavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Both lopinavir; ritonavir and ketoconazole are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Major) Avoid ritonavir for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ketoconazole and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with ketoconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, decrease the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg PO once daily to 75 mg PO once daily. In patients who have already had a dose reduction to 75 mg PO once daily due to adverse reactions, reduce the dose of lorlatinib to 50 mg PO once daily. If ketoconazole is discontinued, increase the dose of lorlatinib after 3 plasma half-lives of ketoconazole to the dose that was used before starting ketoconazole. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC and Cmax of lorlatinib by 42% and 24%, respectively.
Lovastatin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of lovastatin and ketoconazole is contraindicated. The risk of developing myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, and acute renal failure is substantially increased if lovastatin is administered concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors including ketoconazole. If no alternative to a short course of treatment with ketoconazole is available, a brief suspension of lovastatin therapy during such treatment can be considered as there are no known adverse consequences to brief interruptions of long-term cholesterol-lowering therapy.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid lumacaftor; ivacaftor for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. The exposure of lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also be increased. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor dosage adjustment is not required when ketoconazole is started in a patient already taking lumacaftor; ivacaftor. However, if lumacaftor; ivacaftor is initiated in a patient already taking ketoconazole, reduce the dose of lumacaftor; ivacaftor to 1 tablet PO daily or 1 packet of oral granules every other day for the first week of treatment, and then increase to the usual recommended daily dose. This dosage adjustment is also necessary if lumacaftor; ivacaftor has been interrupted for more than 1 week and re-initiated while the patient is taking ketoconazole. The 1-week lead-in period at the lower lumacaftor; ivacaftor dosage allows for lumacaftor's induction of CYP3A4 to reach steady-state. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor; ivacaftor is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In pharmacokinetic studies, coadministration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 4.3-fold. (Major) If ketoconazole and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid lumacaftor; ivacaftor for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. The exposure of lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also be increased. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor dosage adjustment is not required when ketoconazole is started in a patient already taking lumacaftor; ivacaftor. However, if lumacaftor; ivacaftor is initiated in a patient already taking ketoconazole, reduce the dose of lumacaftor; ivacaftor to 1 tablet PO daily or 1 packet of oral granules every other day for the first week of treatment, and then increase to the usual recommended daily dose. This dosage adjustment is also necessary if lumacaftor; ivacaftor has been interrupted for more than 1 week and re-initiated while the patient is taking ketoconazole. The 1-week lead-in period at the lower lumacaftor; ivacaftor dosage allows for lumacaftor's induction of CYP3A4 to reach steady-state. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor; ivacaftor is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In pharmacokinetic studies, coadministration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 4.3-fold.
Lumateperone: (Major) Reduce the dose of lumateperone to 10.5 mg once daily if concomitant use of ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase lumateperone exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lumateperone is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumateperone exposure by approximately 4-fold.
Lurasidone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lurasidone with ketoconazole is contraindicated due to increased plasma concentrations of lurasidone. Lurasidone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased lurasidone exposure by 9-fold.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lurbinectedin and ketoconazole due to the risk of increased lurbinectedin exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of lurbinectedin by 50%. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of lurbinectedin by 2.7-fold.
Macimorelin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and macimorelin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with ketoconazole is necessary. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with ketoconazole is necessary. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2-fold. (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and ketoconazole for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of ketoconazole for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Concurrent use may increase systemic exposure to tadalafil resulting in adverse effects including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole 200 mg and 400 mg daily increased tadalafil AUC by 107% and 312%, respectively.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Administer antacids at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Administer antacids at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Maraviroc: (Major) Reduce the dose of maraviroc when coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary, regardless of whether the patient is receiving a concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducer. The effect of ketoconazole on maraviroc exposure is expected to exceed that of the inducer and overall, increased maraviroc concentrations are expected. Coadministration of maraviroc with ketoconazole is contraindicated in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute. Recommendations for reducing the maraviroc dose when administered with ketoconazole (with or without a concomitant CYP3A inducer) are: adults and children weighing 40 kg or more: 150 mg PO twice daily; children weighing 30 to 39 kg: 100 mg PO twice daily; children weighing 20 to 29 kg: 75 mg PO twice daily (or 80 mg PO twice daily for solution); children weighing 10 to 19 kg: 50 mg PO twice daily. Maraviroc is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may result in increased maraviroc concentrations.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ketoconazole therapy. Avoid initiation of ketoconazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ketoconazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Mavorixafor: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for other mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ketoconazole with medroxyprogesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of medroxyprogesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Medroxyprogesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A4 and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and mefloquine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ketoconazole should not be administered within 15 weeks of the last dose of mefloquine. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of mefloquine, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Mefloquine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the exposure of mefloquine by 79%.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Major) Saxagliptin is a p-glycoprotein substrate, and the metabolism of saxagliptin is primarily mediated by CYP3A4/5. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of both p-glycoprotein and CYP3A4/5. Saxagliptin did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of ketoconazole, but coadministration increased the maximum serum saxagliptin concentration by 62% and the systemic exposure by 2.5-fold. As expected, the maximum serum concentration of the saxagliptin active metabolite was decreased by 95% and the systemic exposure was decreased by 91%. In another study, the maximum serum saxagliptin concentration increased by 2.4-fold and the systemic exposure increased by 3.4-fold. The saxagliptin dose is limited to 2.5 mg once daily when coadministered with a strong CYP 3A4/5 inhibitor such as ketoconazole. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Methadone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and methadone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of methadone, further increasing the risk for adverse effects, such as respiratory and/or CNS depression. Methadone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Methylergonovine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if methylprednisolone is used with ketoconazole. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of methylprednisolone. Methylprednisolone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and metronidazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation has been reported, particularly when metronidazole was administered with drugs with the potential for prolonging the QT interval, like ketoconazole.
Midazolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of midazolam with ketoconazole. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Midostaurin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and midostaurin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of midostaurin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity (e.g., gastrointestinal toxicity, hematologic toxicity, bleeding, and infection), particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and the first week of each cycle of midostaurin therapy for acute myeloid leukemia. Consider interval assessments of QT by EKG. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC values of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and mifepristone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. When mifepristone is used in the treatment of Cushing's syndrome, coadministration with ketoconazole should be done only when necessary, and in such cases the dose of mifepristone should be limited to a maximum dose of 900 mg per day. In a patient already receiving ketoconazole, initiate mifepristone at a dose of 300 mg and titrate up to a maximum of 900 mg if clinically indicated. If ketoconazole is initiated in a patient already receiving mifepristone 300 mg, dosage adjustments are not required. If ketoconazole is initiated in a patient already receiving mifepristone 600 mg, reduce mifepristone to 300 mg per day and titrate to a maximum of 600 mg if clinically indicated. If ketoconazole is initiated in a patient receiving already receiving 900 mg, reduce mifepristone to 600 mg per day and titrate up to a maximum of 900 mg if clinically indicated. In a patient receiving mifepristone 1,200 mg, reduce the mifepristone dose to 900 mg. Both mifepristone and ketoconazole are substrates and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4.
Mirtazapine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and mirtazapine if possible due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Decrease the dose of mirtazapine if needed with concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitor use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine may be needed if the CYP3A inhibitor is discontinued. Mirtazapine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC of mirtazapine by approximately 50%.
Mirvetuximab Soravtansine: (Moderate) Closely monitor for mirvetuximab soravtansine-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of ketoconazole is necessary. DM4, the cytotoxic component of mirvetuximab soravtansine, is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase unconjugated DM4 exposure.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with ketoconazole, due to increased risk of adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole increased mitapivat overall and peak exposure by approximately 3.9-fold and 2.4-fold, respectively, after mitapivat 5, 20, or 50 mg twice daily.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid mitotane for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Mobocertinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and mobocertinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of mobocertinib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of ketoconazole is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in modafinil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Modafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Interactions with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as ketoconazole are possible. However, because modafinil is itself an inducer of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, drug interactions due to CYP3A4 inhibition by other medications may be complex and difficult to predict.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for steroid-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mometasone with ketoconazole is necessary, due to increased mometasone exposure; Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression could potentially occur with long-term use. Mometasone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression. If coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary, assess the need for morphine dosage reduction as clinically indicated. Morphine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Moxifloxacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and moxifloxacin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Careful monitoring is recommended when ketoconazole is coadministered with nadolol. If these drugs are administered together, monitor patient for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged nadolol-related side effects.
Naldemedine: (Major) Monitor for potential naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with ketoconazole. The plasma concentrations of naldemedine may be increased during concurrent use. Naldemedine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp; ketoconazole is a moderate P-gp inhibitor and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Naloxegol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of naloxegol with ketoconazole is contraindicated. Naloxegol is metabolized primarily by CYP3A. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole, can significantly increase exposure to naloxegol which may precipitate opioid withdrawal symptoms such as hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, irritability, and yawning.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of nab-paclitaxel with ketoconazole is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with ketoconazole increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid nefazodone for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ketoconazole and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid nelfinavir for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Although specific recommendations are unavailable for use with ketoconazole, a reduced nelfinavir dose of 600 mg PO every 8 hours is recommended when coadministered with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Both ketoconazole and nelfinavir are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Nerandomilast: (Major) Decrease the nerandomilast dose to 9 mg twice daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nerandomilast exposure and the risk for nerandomilast-related adverse effects. Nerandomilast is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased nerandomilast overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole with neratinib due to an increased risk of neratinib-related toxicity. Neratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased neratinib exposure by 381%.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in netupitant-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Netupitant is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased netupitant exposure by 140%; however, no dosage adjustment is necessary.
Nevirapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nevirapine and ketoconazole. Concurrent use may result in decreases in ketoconazole plasma concentrations that may reduce efficacy of the drug. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole and increase the dose of ketoconazole as necessary. Additionally, monitor for an increase in nevirapine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor; nevirapine is a CYP3A substrate and CYP3A inducer. Coadministration results in a 15% to 30% increase in nevirapine plasma concentrations and a 63% reduction in ketoconazole AUC.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Use ketoconazole and nicardipine with caution due to additive negative inotropic effect and increased risk of edema and congestive heart failure. Concomitant administration may cause several-fold increases in nicardipine plasma concentrations.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Careful monitoring and dose adjustment of nifedipine may be necessary if administered with ketoconazole as nifedipine exposure and adverse effects may be increased. Consider initiating nifedipine at the lowest dose. Nifedipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong/moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of nilotinib and ketoconazole. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and may increase nilotinib exposure and the risk for nilotinib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, a nilotinib dosage reduction is required; specific management recommendations vary by indication and dosage form. For patients receiving nilotinib for resistant or intolerant Ph+ CML, reduce the nilotinib once daily dose to: 300 mg for capsules, 142 mg for tablets, 120 mg for oral disintegrating tablets. For patients receiving nilotinib for newly diagnosed Ph+ CML, reduce the nilotinib once daily dose to: 200 mg for capsules, 95 mg for tablets, 80 mg for oral disintegrating tablets. Nilotinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use increased nilotinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
niMODipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with ketoconazole due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A4 and ketoconazole is a dual P-gp and CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid ritonavir for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ketoconazole and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased nirogacestat exposure which may increase the risk for nirogacestat-related adverse effects. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase nirogacestat overall exposure by 5.19-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with ketoconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 24-fold.
Nizatidine: (Major) Avoid use of H2-blockers with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair ketoconazole absorption.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ofloxacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ofloxacin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ketoconazole is associated with a risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Some quinolones, including ofloxacin, have been associated with prolongation of the QT interval on the ECG and infrequent cases of arrhythmia. Rare cases ofTdP have been spontaneously reported during postmarketing surveillance in patients receiving quinolones, including ofloxacin.
OLANZapine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and olanzapine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and fluoextine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ketoconazole has a known risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Postmarketing cases of QT interval prolongation and ventricular arrhythmia including TdP have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and olanzapine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and olanzapine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased olaparib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of olaparib to 100 mg twice daily; the original dose may be resumed 3 to 5 elimination half-lives after ketoconazole is discontinued. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase olaparib exposure. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the olaparib Cmax by 42% and the AUC by 170%.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and ketoconazole is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and ketoconazole may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If ketoconazole is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Olodaterol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in olodaterol-related adverse effects, including increased heart rate and QT prolongation, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase olodaterol exposure. No dose adjustment of olodaterol is necessary. In a drug interaction study using the strong dual CYP and P-gp inhibitor ketoconazole, a 1.7-fold increase of olodaterol inhalation maximum plasma concentrations and AUC was observed. No dose adjustment is necessary. Olodaterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for steroid-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mometasone with ketoconazole is necessary, due to increased mometasone exposure; Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression could potentially occur with long-term use. Mometasone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption. (Major) Concurrent use of ketoconzole with rifabutin is not recommended. Taking these drug together may result in increased exposure to rifabutin and decreased exposure to ketoconazole. Both drugs are substrates for CYP3A4, while rifabutin is also a CYP3A4 inducer and ketoconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption. (Major) Ketoconazole requires an acidic pH for absorption. Medications that increase gastric pH or decrease acid output can cause a notable decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole. Medications that have this effect are antacids, antimuscarinics, histamine H2-blockers, and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Except for antacids, these medications have a prolonged duration of action, and staggering their time of administration with ketoconazole by several hours may not prevent the drug interaction; ketoconazole should be administered at least 2 hours before or 1 hour after antacids. An alternative imidazole antifungal should be chosen if any of these gastrointestinal medications are required. If these drugs must be coadministered, administer ketoconazole tablets with an acidic beverage and closely monitor for breakthrough infection.
Ondansetron: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ondansetron due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ketoconazole is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring is recommended in patients at risk if use together cannot be avoided and is medically necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor for orforglipron-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary; an orforglipron dosage reduction may be required. When used together, the maximum daily dosage of orforglipron is reduced to 9 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase orforglipron exposure. Orforglipron is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Ketoconazole is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of ketoconazole may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Osilodrostat: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and osilodrostat due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of osilodrostat, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of osilodrostat by half. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Osimertinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and osimertinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Ospemifene: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ospemifene-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Ospemifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased ospemifene systemic exposure by 1.4-fold.
Oveporexton: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of oveporexton and ketoconazole is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase oveporexton exposure and the risk for oveporexton-related adverse reactions. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased oveporexton exposure by 7.4-fold.
Oxaliplatin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and oxaliplatin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in oxybutynin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Oxybutynin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased mean oxybutynin plasma concentrations by approximately 2-fold.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. If ketoconazole is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor like ketoconazole can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ketoconazole is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Ozanimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ozanimod due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of paclitaxel with ketoconazole is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Pacritinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of pacritinib and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased pacritinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.8-fold.
Palbociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with palbociclib; significantly increased plasma exposure of palbociclib may occur. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of palbociclib to 75 mg PO once daily and monitor for increased adverse reactions. If ketoconazole is discontinued, increase the palbociclib dose (after 3 to 5 half-lives of ketoconazole) to the dose used before initiation of ketoconazole. Palbociclib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction trial, coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC and Cmax of palbociclib by 87% and 34%, respectively.
Paliperidone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and paliperidone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased palovarotene exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased palovarotene overall exposure by 3-fold.
Panobinostat: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and panobinostat due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of panobinostat, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the starting dose of panobinostat to 10 mg. Panobinostat is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC of panobinostat by 73%.
Pantoprazole: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Paricalcitol: (Moderate) Monitor plasma PTH and serum calcium and phosphorous concentrations if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with both paricalcitol and ketoconazole, or during periods of dose titration. If hypercalcemia occurs, the dose of paricalcitol should be reduced or withheld until these parameters are normalized. Paricalcitol is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole approximately doubled the exposure of paricalcitol.
Pasireotide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pasireotide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
PAZOPanib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pazopanib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of pazopanib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the pazopanib dose to 400 mg PO once daily; further dose adjustments may be necessary if adverse effects occur. Pazopanib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use with ketoconazole increased the AUC of pazopanib by 1.7-fold.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and ketoconazole due to the risk of increased pemigatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pemigatinib to 9 mg PO once daily if original dose was 13.5 mg per day and to 4.5 mg PO once daily if original dose was 9 mg per day. If ketoconazole is discontinued, resume the original pemigatinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of ketoconazole. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased pemigatinib exposure by 88%.
Pentamidine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and systemic pentamidine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, can prolong the half-life of perampanel and decrease perampanel metabolism. Administration of a single dose of perampanel 1 mg with ketoconazole 400 mg once daily for 8 days in healthy subjects increased perampanel half-life from 58.4 to 67.8 hours, and increased perampanel AUC by 20%. Patients taking ketoconazole and perampanel should be closely monitored for adverse effects; a perampanel dose adjustment may be necessary.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Perphenazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and perphenazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and perphenazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pexidartinib and ketoconazole due to the risk of increased pexidartinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pexidartinib dosage as follows: 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg twice daily; 250 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg once daily. If ketoconazole is discontinued, increase the pexidartinib dose to the original dose after 3 plasma half-lives of ketoconazole. Additionally, monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary and avoid concurrent use in patients with increased serum transaminases, total bilirubin, or direct bilirubin (more than ULN) or active liver or biliary tract disease. Pexidartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with hepatotoxicity. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pexidartinib exposure by 70%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Phenytoin: (Major) The use of phenytoin within 2 weeks of ketoconazole therapy is not recommended. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole and increase the dose of ketoconazole as necessary. Monitor phenytoin concentrations during concomitant therapy due to risk for phenytoin toxicity. Concomitant use may increase phenytoin concentrations. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Pimavanserin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pimavanserin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of pimavanserin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of pimozide, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Pimozide is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant ketoconazole and pioglitazone use. Concomitant use increased ketoconazole exposure and peak concentration by 34% and 14%, respectively.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant ketoconazole and pioglitazone use. Concomitant use increased ketoconazole exposure and peak concentration by 34% and 14%, respectively.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and ketoconazole may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is a human multidrug and toxic extrusion (MATE) and OCT2 substrate and ketoconazole is a MATE and OCT2 inhibitor. MATE and OCT2 inhibitors may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant ketoconazole and pioglitazone use. Concomitant use increased ketoconazole exposure and peak concentration by 34% and 14%, respectively.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pirtobrutinib and ketoconazole due to the risk of increased pirtobrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pirtobrutinib dose by 50 mg. If the current pirtobrutinib dosage is 50 mg once daily, interrupt pirtobrutinib treatment for the duration of ketoconazole use. Resume the previous dose of pirtobrutinib after ketoconazole is discontinued for 5 half-lives. Pirtobrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased pirtobrutinib overall exposure by 49%.
Pitolisant: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pitolisant due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Pivekimab sunirine: (Moderate) Monitor for pivekimab sunirine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to FGN849, the cytotoxic component of pivekimab sunirine. FGN849 is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Polatuzumab Vedotin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased polatuzumab vedotin toxicity during coadministration of ketoconazole due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of polatuzumab vedotin, MMAE. MMAE is metabolized by CYP3A4; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Ketoconazole is predicted to increase the exposure of MMAE by 45%.
Pomalidomide: (Minor) A clinically insignificant increase in pomalidomide exposure occurred when pomalidomide and ketoconazole were administered together in a drug interaction study. Pomalidomide is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor. In 16 healthy male volunteers, the pomalidomide AUC value was increased by 19% when pomalidomide was co-administered with ketoconazole.
PONATinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ponatinib and ketoconazole due to the potential for increased ponatinib exposure. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, reduce the ponatinib dose to the next lower dose level (45 mg to 30 mg; 30 mg to 15 mg; 15 mg to 10 mg). If the patient is taking ponatinib 10 mg once daily prior to concurrent use, avoid the use of ketoconazole and consider alternative therapy. After ketoconazole has been discontinued for 3 to 5 half-lives, resume the dose of ponatinib that was tolerated prior to starting ketoconazole. Ponatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the ponatinib AUC by 78%.
Ponesimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ponesimod due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of pralsetinib to 200 mg once daily for patients taking a daily dose of 400 mg or 300 mg, and to 100 mg once daily for patients taking a daily dose of 200 mg. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a combined strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a combined strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 251%.
Praziquantel: (Moderate) Ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4 and may reduce metabolism of praziquantel. This interaction may be beneficial. The combination may prolong the exposure of the parasites to praziquantel and may not result in an increased risk of side effects.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if prednisolone is used with ketoconazole. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of prednisolone. Prednisolone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor for corticosteroid-related adverse events if prednisone is used with ketoconazole. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of prednisone. Prednisone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%. In a study, ketoconazole inhibited 6 beta-hydroxylase and increased the exposure of biologically active unbound prednisolone after oral prednisone administration.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with ketoconazole, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Primaquine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of primaquine and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a dual strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase colchicine overall exposure by 3.1-fold.
Procainamide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and procainamide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Prochlorperazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and prochlorperazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Progesterone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ketoconazole with progesterone is necessary, as the systemic exposure of progesterone may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Progesterone is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via a CYP3A4. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone.
Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and promethazine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes(TdP). Promethazine has a possible risk for QT prolongation; ketoconazole is known to have a risk for QT prolongation and TdP. If use together is medically necessary it may be advisable to monitor ECG and serum electrolytes.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and promethazine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes(TdP). Promethazine has a possible risk for QT prolongation; ketoconazole is known to have a risk for QT prolongation and TdP. If use together is medically necessary it may be advisable to monitor ECG and serum electrolytes.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and promethazine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes(TdP). Promethazine has a possible risk for QT prolongation; ketoconazole is known to have a risk for QT prolongation and TdP. If use together is medically necessary it may be advisable to monitor ECG and serum electrolytes.
Propafenone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and propafenone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 (such as ketoconazole) can be expected to cause increased plasma levels of propafenone. The combination may increase the risk of adverse reactions, including proarrhythmia. Propafenone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in quazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary; reduce the dose of quazepam if clinically appropriate. Concurrent use may increase the concentrations of quazepam. Quazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
QUEtiapine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and quetiapine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and a risk for torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of quetiapine, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quetiapine to one-sixth the original dose; consider monitoring ECG and serum electrolytes. Quetiapine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the exposure of quetiapine by approximately 6-fold.
quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and quinidine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
quiNINE: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and quinine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of quinine, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Quinine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the exposure of quinine by 45% and decreased the clearance by 31%.
Quizartinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ketoconazole and quizartinib is contraindicated due to the risk for increase quizartinib exposure and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) per the manufacturer of ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of ketoconazole use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
RABEprazole: (Major) Avoid use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with ketoconazole. Medications that increase gastric pH may impair oral ketoconazole absorption.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ramelteon-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Ramelteon is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased ramelteon exposure by 84%.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ranolazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of ranolazine, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Ranolazine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased ranolazine exposure by 220%.
Red Yeast Rice: (Contraindicated) The risk of developing myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, and acute renal failure is increased if lovastatin is administered concomitantly with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole. Since compounds in red yeast rice claim to have HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor activity and certain products (i.e., pre-2005 Cholestin formulations) contain lovastatin, red yeast rice should not be used in combination with ketoconazole. If no alternative to a short course of treatment with a systemic azole antifungal is available, a brief suspension of red yeast rice therapy during such treatment can be considered.
Regorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of regorafenib with ketoconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of regorafenib and decreased plasma concentrations of the active metabolites M-2 and M-5, which may lead to increased toxicity. Regorafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole increased regorafenib exposure by 33% and decreased exposure of M-2 and M-5 by 93% each.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid use of relacorilant for 2 weeks before and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ketoconazole exposure and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and relugolix due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of relugolix, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer ketoconazole at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of ketoconazole is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than seven days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and relugolix due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of relugolix, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer ketoconazole at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of ketoconazole is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than seven days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. (Minor) As ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A4 activity, serum estrogen concentrations and estrogenic-related side effects (e.g., nausea, breast tenderness) may potentially increase when coadministered with either estrogens or combined hormonal contraceptives.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 4.3-fold.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) A dose reduction of repaglinide and increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Repaglinide is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased repaglinide exposure by up to 1.5-fold.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with ketoconazole due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased repotrectinib exposure by 5.9-fold.
Retapamulin: (Moderate) Coadministration of retapamulin with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole, in patients younger than 24 months is not recommended. Systemic exposure of topically administered retapamulin may be higher in patients younger than 24 months than in patients 2 years and older. Retapamulin is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Revumenib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of revumenib and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use may also increase revumenib exposure and the risk for other revumenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, a revumenib dosage decrease is required; dosing recommendations vary by weight. For patients weighing 40 kg or more, reduce the starting dose to 160 mg PO twice daily or 110 mg PO twice daily for those requiring a dosage reduction for adverse reactions. For patients weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the starting dose to 95 mg/m2 PO twice daily or 65 mg/m2 PO twice daily for those requiring a dosage reduction for adverse reactions. See prescribing information for additional details regarding dosage form rounding with body surface area (BSA) based dosing. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Revumenib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inhibitors increased revumenib overall exposure by 2- to 2.5-fold.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ribociclib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the daily dose of ribociclib to 200 mg for patients with early breast cancer and 400 mg for patients with advanced/metastatic breast cancer. A ketoconazole dose reduction may also be necessary. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Both drugs are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors and both have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ribociclib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ribociclib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the daily dose of ribociclib to 200 mg for patients with early breast cancer and 400 mg for patients with advanced/metastatic breast cancer. A ketoconazole dose reduction may also be necessary. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Both drugs are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors and both have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ribociclib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Concurrent use of ketoconzole with rifabutin is not recommended. Taking these drug together may result in increased exposure to rifabutin and decreased exposure to ketoconazole. Both drugs are substrates for CYP3A4, while rifabutin is also a CYP3A4 inducer and ketoconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid rifampin for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid rifapentine for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and rilpivirine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of rilpivirine, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Rilpivirine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hepatic injury during coadministration of riluzole and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Discontinue therapy if clinical signs of liver dysfunction are present.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 8-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with ketoconazole; concurrent use may significantly increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased rimegepant exposure by 4-fold.
Riociguat: (Major) Concomitant use of riociguat with strong cytochrome CYP inhibitors and P-gp/BCRP inhibitors such as azole antimycotics (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole) or anti-retroviral protease inhibitors (such as ritonavir) increase riociguat exposure and may result in hypotension. Consider a starting dose of 0.5 mg 3 times a day when initiating riociguat in patients receiving strong CYP and P-gp/BCRP inhibitors. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension on initiation and on treatment with strong CYP and P-gp/BCRP inhibitors. A dose reduction should be considered in patients who may not tolerate the hypotensive effect of riociguat.
Ripretinib: (Moderate) Monitor patients more frequently for ripretinib-related adverse reactions if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite (DP-5439), which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Ripretinib and DP-5439 are metabolized by CYP3A4 and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased ripretinib and DP-5439 exposure by 99%.
risperiDONE: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and risperidone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid ritonavir for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ketoconazole and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Avoid concomitant administration of rivaroxaban and ketoconazole; significant increases in rivaroxaban exposure may increase bleeding risk. Rivaroxaban is a substrate of CYP3A4/5 and the P-glycoprotein transporter. Concurrent use of rivaroxaban and ketoconazole, a combined P-glycoprotein and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, led to an increase in the steady-state rivaroxaban AUC by 160% and Cmax by 70%. Similar increases in pharmacodynamic effects such as factor Xa inhibition and PT prolongation were also observed.
Roflumilast: (Moderate) Coadminister ketoconazole and roflumilast cautiously as increased systemic exposure to roflumilast has been demonstrated in pharmacokinetic study. Increased roflumilast-induced adverse reactions may result. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; roflumilast is a CYP3A4 substrate. In an open-label crossover study in 16 healthy volunteers, the coadministration of ketoconazole (200 mg twice daily for 13 days) with a single oral dose of roflumilast 500 mcg resulted in 23% and 99% increase in Cmax and AUC for roflumilast, respectively, and a 38% reduction in Cmax and 3% increase in AUC for the active metabolite roflumilast N-oxide.
romiDEPsin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and romidepsin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of romidepsin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Romidepsin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased romidepsin AUC by approximately 25%.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of ketoconazole and ropivacaine may result in elevated ropivacaine serum concentration; thereby increasing the risk for drug toxicity. The metabolism of ropivacaine to 3-hydroxyropivacaine is dependent on CYP1A2, and the metabolism of ropivacaine to (S)-2',6'-pipecoloxylidide is dependent on CYP3A4. Ropivacaine is metabolized to a lesser extent by cytochrome CYP3A4. Without the presence of an enzyme inducer or inhibitor, the fraction of a ropivacaine dose that is converted to (S)-2',6'-pipecoloxylidide is 0.01 +/- 0.02 whereas 0.39 +/- 0.05 is converted to 3-hydroxyropivacaine. In the presence of the CYP3A4 inhibitor, ketoconazole, the disposition of ketoconazole was all 3-hydroxyropivacaine (0.47 +/- 0.07). Concurrent administration of ketoconazole (100 mg twice daily for 2 days with ropivacaine infusion administered 1 hour after ketoconazole) caused a 15% reduction in in vivo ropivacaine plasma clearance. Plasma ropivacaine concentrations increased slightly.
Ruxolitinib: (Major) Reduce the ruxolitinib dosage if concomitant use of ketoconazole is necessary in patients with myelofibrosis (MF) or polycythemia vera (PV). Dosage adjustments differ between immediate-release (IR) and extended-release (XR) ruxolitinib products. For MF, use a reduced starting dosage based on platelet count: for a platelet count of 100,000 cells/mm3 or more, reduce the starting dosage to 10 mg PO twice daily IR or 22 mg PO once daily XR; for a platelet count of 50,000 to 99,999 cells/mm3, change to 5 mg PO once daily IR. For PV, reduce the starting dosage to 5 mg PO twice daily IR or 11 mg PO once daily XR. For MF or PV patients on a stable dose of ruxolitinib, reduce the ruxolitinib dosage based on their current dose: for those on at least 10 mg PO twice daily IR or 22 mg PO once daily XR, reduce the dosage by 50%; for those on 5 mg PO twice daily IR, change to 5 mg PO once daily IR; for those on 5 mg PO once daily IR or 11 mg once daily XR, avoid the use of ketoconazole or consider a ruxolitinib therapy interruption for the duration of ketoconazole use. No dose adjustments are necessary for patients with graft-versus-host disease; however, monitor blood counts more frequently for ruxolitinib toxicity and adjust the ruxolitinib dosage as appropriate for adverse reactions. Concomitant use may increase ruxolitinib exposure and the risk for ruxolitinib-related adverse effects. Ruxolitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased ruxolitinib overall exposure by 1.9-fold.
Salmeterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of salmeterol with ketoconazole. Concomitant use increases salmeterol exposure and may increase the incidence and severity of salmeterol-related adverse effects. Signs and symptoms of excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation commonly include tachyarrhythmias, hypertension, and tremor. Salmeterol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased salmeterol overall exposure 16-fold mainly due to increased bioavailability of the swallowed portion of the dose.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and saquinavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Both saquinavir and ketoconazole are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with ketoconazole 200 mg/day increased saquinavir exposure by 168%.
sAXagliptin: (Major) Saxagliptin is a p-glycoprotein substrate, and the metabolism of saxagliptin is primarily mediated by CYP3A4/5. Ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of both p-glycoprotein and CYP3A4/5. Saxagliptin did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of ketoconazole, but coadministration increased the maximum serum saxagliptin concentration by 62% and the systemic exposure by 2.5-fold. As expected, the maximum serum concentration of the saxagliptin active metabolite was decreased by 95% and the systemic exposure was decreased by 91%. In another study, the maximum serum saxagliptin concentration increased by 2.4-fold and the systemic exposure increased by 3.4-fold. The saxagliptin dose is limited to 2.5 mg once daily when coadministered with a strong CYP 3A4/5 inhibitor such as ketoconazole.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sebetralstat and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased sebetralstat exposure which may increase the risk for sebetralstat-related adverse effects. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sebetralstat overall exposure by 5.2-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase ethinyl estradiol exposure. Ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Coadministration of segesterone, a CYP3A4 substrate and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as ketoconazole may increase the serum concentration of segesterone.
Seladelpar: (Minor) Monitor patients who are known CYP2C9 poor metabolizers more frequently for an increase in seladelpar-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use in these patients may increase seladelpar exposure. Seladelpar is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Selpercatinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and selpercatinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of selpercatinib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the dose of selpercatinib (160 mg twice daily to 80 mg twice daily; 120 mg twice daily to 40 mg twice daily; 80 mg twice daily to 40 mg twice daily; 40 mg three times daily to 40 mg once daily). Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased selpercatinib exposure by 2.33-fold.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and ketoconazole due to the risk of increased selumetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of selumetinib to 20 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 25 mg/m2 twice daily and 15 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 20 mg/m2 twice daily. If ketoconazole is discontinued, resume the original selumetinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of ketoconazole. Selumetinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased selumetinib exposure by 49%.
Sertraline: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and sertraline due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Ketoconazole has a well established risk for QT prolongation and TdP. QTc prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of sertraline; most cases had confounding risk factors; the risk of sertraline-induced QT prolongation is generally considered to be low in clinical practice. Sertraline has been used safely in patients with cardiac disease (e.g., recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, chronic heart failure).
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the sevabertinib dose by half from 20 mg twice daily to 10 mg twice daily or from 10 mg twice daily to 10 mg once daily; hold sevabertinib in those receiving 10 mg once daily. Use may increase sevabertinib exposure and the risk for sevabertinib-related adverse effects. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sevabertinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Sevoflurane: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and halogenated anesthetics due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Sildenafil: (Major) Coadministration of ketoconazole is not recommended in patients receiving sildenafil for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). When sildenafil is used for erectile dysfunction, consider a starting dose of 25 mg for patients receiving ketoconazole. Concurrent use may increase sildenafil plasma concentrations resulting in increased associated adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the sildenafil AUC between 3- and 11-fold.
Silodosin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of silodosin and ketoconazole is contraindicated. Silodosin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; ketoconazole inhibits CYP3A and P-gp. Coadministration may cause significant increases in silodosin plasma concentrations. In one study, coadministration resulted in a 3.8-fold increase in maximum plasma silodosin concentrations and a 3.2-fold increase in silodosin AUC.
Simvastatin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of simvastatin and ketoconazole is contraindicated. The risk of developing myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, and acute renal failure is increased if simvastatin is administered concomitantly with potent CYP3A inhibitors such as ketoconazole. If therapy with ketoconazole is unavoidable, simvastatin therapy must be suspended during the course of ketoconazole treatment. There are no known adverse effects with short-term discontinuation of simvastatin.
Siponimod: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and siponimod due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of siponimod, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Siponimod is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use increased sirolimus overall exposure by 10.9-fold in a drug interaction study.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Ketoconazole requires an acidic pH for absorption. Medications that increase gastric pH or decrease acid output can cause a notable decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole. Medications that have this effect are antacids, antimuscarinics, histamine H2-blockers, and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Except for antacids, these medications have a prolonged duration of action, and staggering their time of administration with ketoconazole by several hours may not prevent the drug interaction; ketoconazole should be administered at least 2 hours before or 1 hour after antacids. An alternative imidazole antifungal should be chosen if any of these gastrointestinal medications are required. If these drugs must be coadministered, administer ketoconazole tablets with an acidic beverage and closely monitor for breakthrough infection.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with ketoconazole. Taking these drugs together may increase the plasma concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in adverse events. Velpatasvir is a substrate of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); ketoconazole is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ketoconazole is also a potent inhibitor of the hepatic enzyme CYP3A4. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with ketoconazole. Taking these drugs together may increase the plasma concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in adverse events. Velpatasvir is a substrate of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); ketoconazole is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ketoconazole is also a potent inhibitor of the hepatic enzyme CYP3A4. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Solifenacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and solifenacin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of solifenacin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, do not exceed a dose of 5 mg per day of solifenacin in adults; do not exceed the initial solifenacin starting dose in pediatric patients. Solifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased solifenacin exposure by 2.7-fold.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and ketoconazole; sonidegib exposure was significantly increased in healthy subjects who received ketoconazole and sonidegib compared with sonidegib only. This interaction may result in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and ketoconazole is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
SORAfenib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and sorafenib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and sotalol due to an increased risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Sparsentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure and the risk for sparsentan-related adverse effects. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 174%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid St. John's Wort for 2 weeks before and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease ketoconazole exposure and reduce ketoconazole efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Sucralfate: (Moderate) Avoid use of sucralfate with ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, separate administration of ketoconazole and sucralfate by at least 2 hours. Sucralfate is expected to impair ketoconazole absorption. Coadministration of sucralfate decreased ketoconazole bioavailability by approximately 20%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if ketoconazole must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ketoconazole is necessary. If ketoconazole is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor like ketoconazole can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If ketoconazole is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
SUNItinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and sunitinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of sunitinib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor the QT interval more frequently and consider reducing the daily dose of sunitinib to a minimum of 37.5 mg for patients with GIST or RCC, and to a minimum of 25 mg for patients with pNET. Sunitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased exposure to sunitinib and its primary active metabolite by 51%.
Suvorexant: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and ketoconazole is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Suzetrigine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of suzetrigine and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to the risk for increased suzetrigine exposure which may increase the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse reactions. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 4.8- and 4.4-fold, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and tacrolimus due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of tacrolimus, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, decrease tacrolimus dose and closely monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic range and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased exposure to tacrolimus and its primary active metabolite by 51%.
Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil and ketoconazole for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, do not exceed 10 mg tadalafil within 72 hours of ketoconazole for the 'as needed' dose or 2.5 mg daily for the 'once-daily' dose. Concurrent use may increase systemic exposure to tadalafil resulting in adverse effects including hypotension, syncope, visual changes, and prolonged erection. Tadalafil is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole 200 mg and 400 mg daily increased tadalafil AUC by 107% and 312%, respectively.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor.
Taletrectinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Tamoxifen: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and tamoxifen due to an increased risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ketoconazole has an established risk for QT prolongation and TdP; QT prolongation with tamoxifen has been reported in the published literature.
Tamsulosin: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ketoconazole is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations are expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. Coadministration with ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin 2.2 and 2.8-fold, respectively.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Avoid concurrent use of tasimelteon and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole, if possible. Tasimelteon is partially metabolized via CYP3A4, and an increase in exposure of tasimelteon with the potential for adverse reactions is possible if a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is coadministered. During administration of ketoconazole 40 mg/day for 5 days, tasimelteon exposure increased by about 50%.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tazemetostat with ketoconazole due to the risk for increased tazemetostat exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease current tazemetostat daily dosage by 50% (e.g., decrease 800 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO twice daily; 600 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO for first dose and 200 mg PO for second dose; 400 mg PO twice daily to 200 mg PO twice daily). Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tazemetostat overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Telavancin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and telavancin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Telisotuzumab vedotin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in telisotuzumab vedotin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase unconjugated MMAE exposure (cytotoxic component of telisotuzumab vedotin). MMAE is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with ketoconazole is predicted to increase the exposure of MMAE by 1.4-fold.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Temsirolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with temsirolimus due to increased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider reducing the dose of temsirolimus to 12.5 mg per week. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after discontinuation of ketoconazole before increasing temsirolimus to its original dose. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole did not significantly affect temsirolimus exposure, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of sirolimus by 3.1-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and tetrabenazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) If ketoconazole and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to twice weekly. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration increased ivacaftor exposure by 8.5-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of tezacaftor; ivacaftor when coadministered with ketoconazole; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet twice a week, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tezacaftor and ivacaftor exposure 4- and 15.6-fold, respectively.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Minor) Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease theophylline serum concentrations when theophylline was administered orally as sustained-release tablets, however, no interaction was noted when theophylline was administered IV. Since ketoconazole is well-known to inhibit the hepatic metabolism of many drugs and theophylline concentrations would be expected to increase, it is suspected that ketoconazole may have interfered with oral bioavailability of theophylline. As these results are based on a single case report, additional clinical data are necessary.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Thiotepa: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thiotepa and ketoconazole if possible; reduced metabolism to the active thiotepa metabolite may result in decreased thiotepa efficacy. Consider an alternative agent with no or minimal potential to inhibit CYP3A4. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients for signs of reduced thiotepa efficacy. In vitro, thiotepa is metabolized via CYP3A4 to the active metabolite, TEPA; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ticagrelor with ketoconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of ticagrelor resulting in an increased risk of dyspnea, bleeding, and other treatment-related adverse reactions. Ticagrelor is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration increased ticagrelor exposure by 7.32-fold.
Tinidazole: (Major) Ketoconazole is an enzyme inhibitor that can decrease the hepatic metabolism of tinidazole. As a result, elimination can be delayed and serum tinidazole concentrations can increase.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in olodaterol-related adverse effects, including increased heart rate and QT prolongation, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase olodaterol exposure. No dose adjustment of olodaterol is necessary. In a drug interaction study using the strong dual CYP and P-gp inhibitor ketoconazole, a 1.7-fold increase of olodaterol inhalation maximum plasma concentrations and AUC was observed. No dose adjustment is necessary. Olodaterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid tipranavir for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Both ketoconazole and tipranavir are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Tisotumab Vedotin: (Moderate) Monitor for tisotumab vedotin-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary due to increased monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. MMAE, the active component of tisotumab vedotin, is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clinical drug interaction studies have not been conducted for tisotumab vedotin. However, coadministration of another antibody-drug conjugate that contains MMAE with ketoconazole increased unconjugated MMAE exposure by 34%.
Tofacitinib: (Major) A tofacitinib dosage reduction is required if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. For patients on immediate-release formulations of tofacitinib: reduce all doses from twice daily to once daily. For patients on extended-release formulations of tofacitinib: reduce 22 mg once daily to 11 mg once daily; reduce 11 mg once daily to immediate-release 5 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase tofacitinib exposure and the risk for tofacitinib-related adverse effects. Tofacitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration increased tofacitinib exposure by 2-fold.
Tolterodine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and tolterodine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of immediate-release tolterodine to 1 mg twice daily and extended-release tolterodine to 2 mg once daily. Tolterodine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the CYP3A4 pathway becomes important in tolterodine elimination. Because it is difficult to assess which patients will be poor CYP2D6 metabolizers, reduced doses of tolterodine are advised when administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the tolterodine AUC by 2.5-fold in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.
Tolvaptan: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of tolvaptan and ketoconazole is contraindicated due to increased tolvaptan exposure. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of ketoconazole 200 mg increased tolvaptan exposure 5-fold; larger ketoconazole doses are expected to produce larger increases in tolvaptan exposure. No data exists regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; ketoconazole may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Toremifene: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and toremifene due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of toremifene, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Trabectedin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of trabectedin with ketoconazole; coadministration resulted in increased trabectedin exposure. If short-term ketoconazole (less than 14 days) cannot be avoided, begin administration 1 week after the trabectedin infusion and discontinue it the day prior to the next trabectedin infusion. Trabectedin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole (200 mg PO twice daily for 7.5 days) increased the systemic exposure of a single dose of trabectedin (0.58 mg/m2 IV) by 66% compared to a single dose of trabectedin (1.3 mg/m2) given alone.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for tradipitant-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tradipitant exposure. Tradipitant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of verapamil with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase the exposure of verapamil. Verapamil is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Clinically significant interactions have been reported with inhibitors of CYP3A4 causing elevation of plasma levels of verapamil. Hypotension, bradyarrhythmias, and other side effects have been observed with some combinations.
traZODone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and trazodone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of trazodone, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, consider a reduced dose of trazodone based on tolerability. Trazodone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of trazodone alone.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased tretinoin exposure which may increase the risk for tretinoin-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor more frequently for adverse effects. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration increased tretinoin exposure by 72%.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in triamcinolone-related adverse effects, such as fluid retention, electrolyte disturbances, and adrenal suppression, if concomitant use of ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triamcinolone exposure. Triamcinolone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%.
Triazolam: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ketoconazole with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ketoconazole. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Triclabendazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and triclabendazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Trifluoperazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and trifluoperazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid tucatinib for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ketoconazole and increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor closely for ketoconazole-related adverse reactions; a ketoconazole dose reduction may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ubrogepant and ketoconazole is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole resulted in a 9.7-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Ulipristal: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and ketoconazole is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vilanterol-related adverse effects, including increased heart rate and QT prolongation, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase vilanterol exposure. Vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole significantly increased systemic exposure to vilanterol. Vilanterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Upadacitinib: (Major) During concomitant use of upadacitinib and ketoconazole reduce the upadacitinib dosage to 15 mg once daily. During induction for ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease reduce the upadacitinib dosage to 30 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase upadacitinib exposure and risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use increased upadacitinib overall exposure 1.75-fold.
Valbenazine: (Major) Limit the maximum daily dose of valbenazine to 40 mg if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase valbenazine exposure and the risk for valbenazine-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation. Valbenazine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased exposure to both valbenazine and its active metabolite by approximately 2-fold.
Vamorolone: (Major) Decrease the vamorolone dose to 4 mg/kg once daily (max: 200 mg) and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase vamorolone exposure and the risk for vamorolone-related adverse effects. Vamorolone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vamorolone overall exposure by 44%.
Vandetanib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and vandetanib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of ketoconazole; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg once per week. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg once per week. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor overall exposure by 6.4-, 4.5-, and 11.1-fold, respectively. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of tezacaftor; ivacaftor when coadministered with ketoconazole; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet twice a week, approximately 3 to 4 days apart (i.e., Day 1 and Day 4). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased tezacaftor and ivacaftor exposure 4- and 15.6-fold, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of ketoconazole; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg once per week. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg once per week. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor overall exposure by 6.4-, 4.5-, and 11.1-fold, respectively.
Vardenafil: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and vardenafil due to an increased risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of vardenafil, further increasing the risk for adverse effects, such as hypotension and syncope. If concomitant use of ketoconazole and vardenafil oral tablets is required, the maximum single vardenafil oral tablet dose is 5 mg every 24 hours for patients receiving ketoconazole 200 mg daily and 2.5 mg every 24 hours for patients receiving ketoconazole 400 mg daily. Do not use vardenafil orally disintegrating tablets (ODTs) with ketoconazole. Vardenafil is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC of vardenafil by 10-fold.
Vemurafenib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and vemurafenib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of vemurafenib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Vemurafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the exposure of vemurafenib by 40%.
Venetoclax: (Major) Coadministration of ketoconazole with venetoclax is contraindicated during the initiation and ramp-up phase in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL); consider an alternative medication or adjust the venetoclax dose with close monitoring for toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) in patients receiving a steady daily dose of venetoclax if concurrent use is necessary. In patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), reduce the venetoclax dose and monitor for toxicity during concurrent use. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of ketoconazole. Specific venetoclax dosage adjustments are as follows: CLL/SLL patients at steady daily dose: 100 mg/day. AML patients: 10 mg on day 1, 20 mg on day 2, 50 mg on day 3, then 100 mg/day starting on day 4. Coadministration of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP inhibitor increased the venetoclax AUC by 540% in a drug interaction study.
Venlafaxine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and venlafaxine due to an increased risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Vepdegestrant: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased vepdegestrant exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, reduce the vepdegestrant dose to 100 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased vepdegestrant overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of verapamil with ketoconazole. Coadministration may increase the exposure of verapamil. Verapamil is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Clinically significant interactions have been reported with inhibitors of CYP3A4 causing elevation of plasma levels of verapamil. Hypotension, bradyarrhythmias, and other side effects have been observed with some combinations.
Vilazodone: (Major) Do not exceed a vilazodone dose of 20 mg once daily if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary; the original dose of vilazodone can be resumed if ketoconazole is discontinued. Vilazodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased vilazodone exposure by 50%.
vinBLAStine: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of vinblastine with ketoconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of vinblastine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular, myelosuppressive, or other side effects. Vinblastine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Enhanced toxicity has been reported in patients receiving a concomitant moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristinewith ketoconazole if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular, myelosuppressive, or other side effects. Vincristine is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in vitro and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Vincristine is also a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristinewith ketoconazole if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular, myelosuppressive, or other side effects. Vincristine is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in vitro and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Vincristine is also a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and voclosporin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of voclosporin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased voclosporin exposure by approximately 19-fold.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of ketoconazole reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of ketoconazole reducing its efficacy.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and clarithromycin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk for adverse events. Both ketoconazole and clarithromycin are CYP3A substrates and strong CYP3A inhibitors. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and vonoprazan. Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity, which may decrease the absorption of ketoconazole reducing its efficacy.
Vorapaxar: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar with ketoconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar and the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased vorapaxar exposure by 2-fold; the bleeding risk for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Vorinostat: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and vorinostat due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with ketoconazole is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in zaleplon-related adverse reactions, including excessive sedation and confusion, if coadministered with ketoconazole. Routine dosage adjustments of zaleplon are not required. CYP3A4 is a minor metabolic pathway for zaleplon elimination as sum of desethylzaleplon (formed via CYP3A4) and its metabolites (5-oxo-desethylzaleplon and 5-oxo-desethylzaleplon glucuronide) account for only 9% of the urinary recovery of a zaleplon dose. Use of a strong, selective CYP3A4 inhibitor produced a 34% increase in zaleplon's Cmax and a 20% increase in the exposure. Other strong selective CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole can be expected to have similar effects.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Decrease the zanubrutinib dose to 80 mg PO once daily if coadministered with ketoconazole. Coadministration may result in increased zanubrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Interrupt zanubrutinib therapy as recommended for adverse reactions. After discontinuation of ketoconazole, resume the previous dose of zanubrutinib. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The AUC of zanubrutinib was increased by 278% when coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Zidesamtinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ketoconazole. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and may increase zidesamtinib exposure and the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zidesamtinib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Ziftomenib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ziprasidone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and ziprasidone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of ziprasidone, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Ziprasidone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC of ziprasidone by approximately 35% to 40%.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Consider decreasing the dose of zolpidem if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Zolpidem is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC (exposure) of zolpidem by 70% and also increased the pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem (e.g., sedation and psychomotor impairment).
Zuranolone: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastritis, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    In the 2 clinical trials assessing the safety of levoketoconazole, the following gastrointestinal-related adverse reactions were reported most commonly: nausea and/or vomiting (30% to 37%). Abdominal pain/dyspepsia (inclusive of reports of abdominal distention, gastritis, gastric disorder, and other related terms) (15% to 33%), diarrhea (15% to 19%), decreased appetite or anorexia (13%), and xerostomia (11%) were also reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cirrhosis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, steatosis
    General Information
    Cases of hepatotoxicity with a fatal outcome or requiring liver transplantation have been reported with the use of oral ketoconazole, the racemic mixture from which levoketoconazole is derived. Some patients had no obvious risk factors for hepatic disease. Serious hepatotoxicity has been reported in patients receiving levoketoconazole, irrespective of the dosages used or the treatment duration. Drug-induced liver injury (peak ALT or AST greater than 3 times upper limit of normal) occurred in 13% of patients using levoketoconazole. In the 2 clinical trials assessing the safety of levoketoconazole, the following hepatic-related adverse reactions were reported: at least 1 liver related adverse reaction (27%), elevated hepatic enzymes (20%), drug-induced liver injury / hepatotoxicity (2%), hepatic pain (4%), hepatic steatosis (1%), and liver disorders (2%). In patients treated with levoketoconazole who had an AST/ALT less than or equal to the ULN at baseline, the following elevations were noted post-baseline: AST or ALT greater than ULN (45%), AST or ALT greater than 3 times the ULN (11%), AST or ALT greater than 5 times the ULN (5%), AST or ALT greater than 10 times the ULN (3%). The following adverse reactions were reported during postmarketing experience with ketoconazole, from which levoketoconazole is derived: serious hepatotoxicity including cholestatic hepatitis, biopsy-confirmed hepatic necrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatic failure including cases resulting in organ transplantation or death. Prompt recognition of liver injury is essential. Permanently discontinue levoketoconazole treatment immediately if AST or ALT is 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or greater, or if the AST or ALT is 3 to less than 5 times the ULN and the total bilirubin concentration 2 times the ULN or more. Repeat liver tests within approximately 3 days following the initial abnormal liver test, until the levels are stable. Monitor at regular intervals thereafter, no less than every 7 to 10 days, until resolution of the abnormality (or return to baseline levels) or until an alternative cause has been identified. For AST or ALT elevations less than 3 times the ULN, or AST or ALT elevations 3 to less than 5 times the ULN and the total bilirubin is less than 2 times the ULN, monitor liver tests and manage hepatotoxicity with levoketoconazole dosage interruption or modifications. If a liver abnormality significantly above the patient's baseline recurs after restarting levoketoconazole, permanently discontinue levoketoconazole.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      steatosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cirrhosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, increased intracranial pressure, insomnia, irritability
    General Information
    In the 2 clinical trials assessing the safety of levoketoconazole, the following nervous system-related adverse reactions were reported: headache (21% to 38%), fatigue (18% to 39%), dizziness (15%), insomnia or sleep disturbances (22%), disturbance in attention (14%), irritability (14%), and depression (12%). Reversible increased intracranial pressure (e.g., papilledema, fontanelle bulging in infants) was reported during postmarketing experience with ketoconazole, from which levoketoconazole is derived.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      increased intracranial pressure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), alopecia, anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, urticaria, xerosis
    General Information
    In the 2 clinical trials assessing the safety of levoketoconazole, the following dermatological-related adverse reactions were reported: xerosis (11% to 12%), alopecia (6% to 11%), pruritus (15%), and rash (17%). Erythema (including flushing) (43%) was reported by patients in study 1 but not in study 2 at rates higher than with placebo. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in 1% of patients treated with levoketoconazole during the clinical trials. Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported after a single dose of oral ketoconazole; urticaria has also been reported during ketoconazole use. Anaphylactic shock, angioneurotic edema (angioedema), acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), and photosensitivity have been reported during postmarketing experience with ketoconazole, from which levoketoconazole is derived.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, hematoma, hematuria, melena, ocular hemorrhage, thrombocytopenia, vaginal bleeding
    General Information
    In the 2 clinical trials assessing the safety of levoketoconazole, bleeding-related adverse reactions were reported in 23% to 40% of patients overall, and events reported included: contusion, hematuria, conjunctival hemorrhage, ecchymosis, epistaxis, hematoma, hyphemia, ocular hemorrhage, gingival bleeding, hemorrhoidal hemorrhage, melena, and scleral hemorrhage. Abnormal uterine or vaginal bleeding was reported in 20% to 24% of patients. Thrombocytopenia has been reported during postmarketing experience with ketoconazole, from which levoketoconazole is derived.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      melena
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    azoospermia, emotional lability, gonadal suppression, gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), infertility, libido decrease, oligospermia
    General Information
    Levoketoconazole may lower serum testosterone and impair male and female infertility; during animal studies, some of the infertility effects observed appeared to be reversible. Hypogonadism (gonadal suppression, 2% to 4%), libido decrease (5%), and gynecomastia (3%) were reported in the 2 clinical trials assessing the safety of levoketoconazole. Potential clinical manifestations of decreased testosterone concentrations in females include libido decrease and mood changes (e.g., emotional lability). Potential clinical manifestations of decreased testosterone concentrations in males may include gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), and oligospermia. Impotence (erectile dysfunction) (with dosages higher than 200 or 400mg daily) and azoospermia were reported during postmarketing experience with ketoconazole in men, from which levoketoconazole is derived. Inform patients of the symptoms associated with low testosterone levels and advise patients to contact a health care provider if they occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      gynecomastia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oligospermia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      azoospermia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      gonadal suppression
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Upper respiratory infection (18% to 28%), gastrointestinal infection (5% to 6%), and urinary tract infection (6% to 16%) were reported in the 2 clinical trials assessing the safety of levoketoconazole.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, myalgia
    General Information
    In the 2 clinical trials assessing the safety of levoketoconazole, the following musculoskeletal-related adverse reactions were reported: arthritis or arthralgia (28%), myalgia (26%), and back pain (22%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypertension, peripheral edema, syncope
    General Information
    Hypertension (20% to 24%), peripheral edema (20%), and pre-syncope/syncope (18%) were reported in the 2 clinical trials assessing the safety of levoketoconazole in patients with Cushing's disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, bradycardia, hypokalemia, palpitations, QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia, torsade de pointes
    General Information
    Levoketoconazole is associated with dose-related QT interval prolongation. QT interval prolongation may lead to life-threatening ventricular dysrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). During clinical studies which excluded patients with baseline QTcF interval greater than 470 msec, 4 (2.4%) patients experienced QTcF greater than 500 msec, and 23 (14.7%) patients experienced change-from-baseline QTcF greater than 60 msec. Resolution typically occurred following a dosage interruption, and in some cases the correction of electrolyte abnormalities. In the 2 clinical trials assessing the safety of levoketoconazole, changes in heart function that may indicate a potential for arrhythmia or arrhythmia exacerbation (including QT prolongation, abnormal T wave, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, tachycardia paroxysmal, and ventricular extrasystoles, bradycardia, carotid pulse increased, intraventricular conduction defect, increased heart rate or sinus tachycardia, or sinus bradycardia) were reported in 19% to 24% of patients. Adverse reactions reported that may have been associated with QT prolongation included fatigue, hypertension, nausea/vomiting, and ventricular extrasystoles. Hypokalemia was reported in 15% to 29% of patients receiving levoketoconazole. Temporarily discontinue levoketoconazole if the QTcF interval exceeds 500 msec. After the QTcF interval returns to less than 500 msec and contributing factors are corrected, re-institution of levoketoconazole at a lower dose may be considered. If QT interval prolongation recurs after restarting levoketoconazole, permanently discontinue treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      torsade de pointes
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    adrenocortical insufficiency
    General Information
    Levoketoconazole lowers cortisol levels and may lead to hypocortisolism with a potential for life-threatening adrenocortical insufficiency. Adrenal insufficiency was observed in 3% to 10% of patients receiving levoketoconazole. Lowering of cortisol levels can cause nausea, vomiting, fatigue, abdominal pain, loss of appetite, and dizziness. Significant lowering of serum cortisol levels may result in adrenal insufficiency that can be manifested by hypotension, electrolyte imbalance, and hypoglycemia. Hypocortisolism may occur at any time during levoketoconazole treatment. Hypocortisolism was reported in 11 (7%) of 166 patients across both studies, with events starting on median study day 96 (range 26 to 166). The majority of cases were managed by reducing the dosage or temporarily interrupting treatment with levoketoconazole. Decrease the dosage or temporarily discontinue levoketoconazole if urine free cortisol or morning blood cortisol levels fall below the target range, there is a rapid decrease in cortisol levels, or if signs and/or symptoms consistent with hypocortisolism are reported. Stop levoketoconazole and administer exogenous glucocorticoid replacement therapy if morning serum or plasma cortisol levels are below target range and signs and/or symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, or hypocortisolism, are present. After levoketoconazole discontinuation, cortisol suppression may persist beyond the 4 to 6- hour half-life of levoketoconazole. If treatment is interrupted, re-initiate levoketoconazole at a lower dosage when cortisol levels are within target ranges and the signs and/or symptoms have resolved. The dosage may be titrated to the previous dose associated with hypocortisolism if the reduced dosage has been well tolerated and the reduced dosage does not achieve an adequate clinical response. Educate patients on the symptoms associated with hypocortisolism and advise them to contact a healthcare provider if they occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      adrenocortical insufficiency
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Levoketoconazole is an oral cortisol synthesis inhibitor that is the 2S,4R-enantiomer derived from racemic ketoconazole. Levoketoconazole is indicated for the treatment of endogenous hypercortisolemia in adult patients with Cushing's syndrome for whom surgery is not an option or has not been curative. The SONICS study achieved its prespecified primary end point, with 30% of patients using levoketoconazole achieving normalization of mean urinary free cortisol following 6 months of maintenance treatment without a dose increase. The LOGICS study also met its primary and key secondary endpoints, confirming the efficacy and safety of levoketoconazole in normalizing and maintaining therapeutic response compared with placebo. Levoketoconazole does have some antifungal activity. Like systemic ketoconazole, levoketoconazole carries a boxed warning for hepatotoxicity and QT prolongation. Levoketoconazole was FDA approved in December 2021.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  In vitro, levoketoconazole is an oral cortisol synthesis inhibitor. Levoketoconazole inhibits key steps in the synthesis of cortisol and testosterone, principally those mediated by CYP11B1 (11 beta-hydroxylase), CYP11A1 (the cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme, the first step in the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone), and CYP17A1 (17 alpha-hydroxylase).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Peak plasma concentrations of levoketoconazole occur approximately 1.5 to 2 hours following oral administration of a single dose of levoketoconazole under fasted conditions. In healthy volunteers, Cmax increases approximately proportionally with dose, while AUC increases greater than dose proportionally from 150 mg to 600 mg. Levoketoconazole accumulates in the plasma during multiple dosing. In a healthy volunteer study (n = 24), subjects the administration of a single, 600 mg oral dose of levoketoconazole tablets with a high-fat meal (total caloric content of 875 calories; 160 protein calories, 170 carbohydrate calories, and 545 fat calories) resulted in an increase of AUC by 30% and no change in Cmax. The median Tmax was delayed from 2 to 4 hours. These changes are not considered to be clinically significant.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Levoketoconazole has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Given the extensive hepatic metabolism of levoketoconazole, it is expected that clearance would be reduced in patients with impaired liver function.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Levoketoconazole has not been studied in patients with renal impairment. The overall pharmacokinetic parameters of racemic ketoconazole were not significantly altered in patients with renal failure when compared with healthy volunteers.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Specific pediatric pharmacokinetic data for levoketoconazole are not available.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Population pharmacokinetic modeling data from patients with Cushing's syndrome suggest there is no impact of age on the pharmacokinetics of levoketoconazole. The pharmacokinetics of levoketoconazole have not been formally studied in geriatric patients.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Population pharmacokinetic modeling data from patients with Cushing's syndrome suggest there is no impact of sex on the pharmacokinetics of levoketoconazole.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    It is not known if race/ethnic differences affect the pharmacokinetics of levoketoconazole.
  Text
  Levoketoconazole is administered orally. Levoketoconazole has an apparent volume of distribution of 31 to 41 L, approximating total body water. Protein binding in human plasma is high (99.3%). Metabolism studies have not been performed. Racemic ketoconazole is metabolized extensively in the liver to several inactive metabolites (with respect to antifungal activity). CYP3A4 is the major enzyme involved in the metabolism of ketoconazole. The major identified metabolic pathways are oxidation and degradation of the imidazole and piperazine rings. In addition, oxidative O-dealkylation and aromatic hydroxylation occurs. Levoketoconazole is eliminated from plasma with a half-life of 3 to 4.5 hours after a single dose and 4 to 6 hours after multiple doses. Approximately 13% of a racemic ketoconazole dose is excreted in the urine, of which 2 to 4% is unchanged drug. The major route of excretion is via the bile into the intestinal tract with about 57% being excreted in the feces.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), OCT2/MATE1, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP1A2
Levoketoconazole is a substrate and potent inhibitor of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Levoketoconazole is a substrate of the intestinal and liver efflux transporter, P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Clinically significant drug interactions are expected with sensitive substrates of CYP3A4 or CYP3A4 and P-gp. Levoketoconazole is also an inhibitor of OCT2 and MATE1 in vivo. Thus, levoketoconazole may increase plasma concentrations of OCT2 and MATE substrates. In vitro, levoketoconazole inhibits CYP2B6 and CYP2C8, and induces CYP1A2.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer with or without food at approximately the same times each day.
Avoid administering gastric acid neutralizers (antacids) for at least 2 hours after taking levoketoconazole.
Missed dose: Skip the missed dose. The patient should take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1,200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1,200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Levoketoconazole is contraindicated in patients with cirrhosis, acute liver disease, poorly controlled chronic liver disease, recurrent symptomatic cholelithiasis, a prior history of drug-induced liver injury due to ketoconazole or any azole antifungal therapy that required discontinuation of treatment, or extensive metastatic liver disease.
Adjustments for liver enzyme elevations occurring during treatment:
AST or ALT 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or greater with any total bilirubin value: Permanently discontinue levoketoconazole treatment immediately.
AST or ALT 3 times ULN or greater with a total bilirubin greater than 2 times the ULN: Permanently discontinue levoketoconazole treatment immediately.
AST or ALT elevations 3 to less than 5 times ULN with total bilirubin 2 times ULN or less:
Temporarily discontinue levoketoconazole.
Monitor LFTs every 3 days until the levels are stable, and then no less than every 7 to 10 days until tests have returned to baseline levels.
May restart at a lower dosage and with slower titration once liver tests normalize and other possible contributing factors have been addressed. Before considering a dosage increase, monitor LFTs weekly for 1 month and then routinely after that to ensure stability of liver tests.
Permanently discontinue the drug if a liver test abnormality significantly above the patient's baseline recurs after restarting levoketoconazole.
Any AST or ALT elevation less than 3 times ULN with any total bilirubin value:
Monitor no less than every 7 to 10 days until tests have returned to baseline levels.
Consider temporarily discontinuing levoketoconazole during this time.
Restart treatment at a lower dosage and titrate more slowly once liver tests return to baseline and other possible contributing factors have been addressed. Before considering a dosage increase, monitor LFTs weekly for 1 month to ensure stability of liver tests.
  Renal Impairment
  There is no experience with levoketoconazole in patients with renal impairment. The overall pharmacokinetics of racemic ketoconazole in patients with renal impairment were not significantly different when compared with healthy subjects.
