=== Abaloparatide — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 4942)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Abaloparatide is an analog of human parathyroid hormone related peptide [PTHrP(1-34)] and is an anabolic agent that stimulates new bone growth.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 80 mcg/day subcutaneously.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, pruritus, rash, asthenia, fatigue, headache, insomnia, lethargy, malaise, vertigo, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, muscle cramps

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. increased risk for osteosarcoma Avoid the use of abaloparatide in individuals at increased risk of osteosarcoma, including those with open epiphyses (e.g., pediatric and young adult...

ABALOPARATIDE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

TYMLOS

Indication Specific Dosing

Recommendations for adult calcium and vitamin D intake from the Bone Health and Osteoporosis Foundation (BHOF) to promote general bone health:
BHOF recommends a target daily intake of 1,200 mg of elemental calcium for females older than 50 years and males older than 70 years. Target daily elemental calcium intake for males 70 years or younger or females 50 years and younger is 1,000 mg.
BHOF recommends a daily vitamin D intake of 20 to 25 mcg (800 to 1,000 international units) for adults 50 years and older. For younger adults, follow the recommended daily allowance suggestions for vitamin D based on age.


For the treatment of osteoporosis

For the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis
Subcutaneous dosage
Postmenopausal Adults


80 mcg subcutaneously once daily. Cumulative use of abaloparatide for more than 2 years during a person's lifetime is not recommended. Supplement calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. Once discontinued, follow with a bisphosphonate or denosumab to prevent decline of bone density and loss of efficacy against fracture.


For the treatment of men with primary or hypogonadal osteoporosis
Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


80 mcg subcutaneously once daily. Cumulative use of abaloparatide for more than 2 years during a person's lifetime is not recommended. Supplement calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

increased risk for osteosarcoma


Avoid the use of abaloparatide in individuals at increased risk of osteosarcoma, including those with open epiphyses (e.g., pediatric and young adult individuals), metabolic bone disease other than osteoporosis (e.g., osteomalacia, Paget disease of the bone), bone metastases or a history of skeletal malignancies, prior external beam or implant radiation therapy involving the skeleton, and hereditary disorders predisposing to osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma has been reported in individuals with a PTH-analog in the postmarketing setting. However, an increased risk has not been observed in observational human trials. Abaloparatide has been associated with an increased incidence of osteosarcoma in rat studies. This increased incidence was dependent on e.g., dose and duration of treatment; systemic exposure to abaloparatide in the rats ranged from 4 to 28 times the exposure given to humans at an 80-mcg daily dose. The relevance of these animal osteosarcoma findings is uncertain relative to humans. However, the potential risk should be considered. The safety and efficacy of abaloparatide have not been evaluated beyond 2 years of treatment. Use of the drug for more than 2 years during a patient's lifetime is not recommended.


adolescents, children, infants, neonates


Avoid use of abaloparatide in populations at risk for osteosarcoma. Pediatric patients (adolescents, children, infants, and neonates) are more likely to have open epiphyses or hereditary disorders predisposing them to an increased risk for osteosarcoma.


pregnancy


Abaloparatide is not indicated for use during pregnancy. There are no human or animal data on the use of abaloparatide during pregnancy to inform any drug-associated risks.


hypercalcemia, primary hyperparathyroidism


Abaloparatide may cause hypercalcemia and is not recommended in patients with pre-existing hypercalcemia or in people who have an underlying hypercalcemic disorder (e.g., primary hyperparathyroidism) due to the possibility of exacerbating the condition. Measure serum calcium at least 16 hours after drug administration if indicated.


breast-feeding


Abaloparatide is not indicated for use during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of abaloparatide in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed infant, or the effects on milk production.


hypercalciuria, nephrolithiasis


Use abaloparatide cautiously in people with active urolithiasis (nephrolithiasis). Abaloparatide may cause hypercalciuria. It is unknown if abaloparatide may exacerbate urolithiasis in patients with active urolithiasis. If an individual has active urolithiasis or pre-existing hypercalciuria is suspected, consider the measurement of urinary calcium excretion.


renal failure, renal impairment


Patients with severe renal impairment and renal failure may have increased abaloparatide exposure. No dosage adjustments are recommended. However, monitor these patients for adverse reactions during abaloparatide therapy.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Abaloparatide is not indicated for use during pregnancy. There are no human or animal data on the use of abaloparatide during pregnancy to inform any drug-associated risks.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Abaloparatide products.

Adverse Reaction
dizziness, orthostatic hypotension


Orthostatic hypotension has been reported with the use of abaloparatide. During clinical trials of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, the incidence of orthostatic systolic blood pressure decline of 20 mmHg or more or diastolic decline of 10 mmHg or more at 1 hour after the first injection was 4% in the abaloparatide group compared to 3% in the placebo group. The incidence of orthostatic blood pressure decline was similar between groups at later time points. Orthostatic hypotension was reported as an adverse reaction in 1% of women receiving abaloparatide compared to 0.5% of placebo. In men with osteoporosis, orthostatic blood pressure declines of 20 mmHg or more systolic and 10 mmHg or more diastolic 1 hour after the first injection occurred in 6% of patients who received abaloparatide compared to 3% who received placebo. Orthostatic hypotension was reported as an adverse reaction in 1% of men receiving abaloparatide and no patients receiving placebo. Dizziness was reported by more than 10% of postmenopausal women in the abaloparatide group compared to 6% placebo and was one of the most common adverse reactions leading to study drug discontinuation (1%). Dizziness was reported in 9% of men with osteoporosis treated with abaloparatide (n = 149) compared to 1% of men treated with placebo (n = 79) during a randomized, double-blind trial, and dizziness was the most common adverse reaction that led to treatment discontinuation (2%).


palpitations, sinus tachycardia


During clinical trials of abaloparatide in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, sinus tachycardia was reported in 2% of patients receiving abaloparatide compared to 1% of those in the placebo group. In 5 of the 13 women who experienced tachycardia with abaloparatide, symptoms occurred within 1 hour of administration. A dose-dependent increase in heart rate has been associated with abaloparatide beginning within 15 minutes after injection and resolving within 6 hours. Palpitations were reported in 5% of patients treated with abaloparatide in clinical trials compared to 0.4% of those receiving placebo and were one of the most common adverse reactions leading to study drug discontinuation (1%).


anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, pruritus, rash


Anaphylactoid reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and urticaria, have been reported in people treated with parathyroid hormone (PTH) analogs, including abaloparatide. Additionally, hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea (in the context of an allergic reaction), pruritus, and rash have been reported during postmarketing experience with abaloparatide. If signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction occur, discontinue treatment, initiate appropriate supportive care, and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve. Discontinue abaloparatide permanently in people with a severe hypersensitivity reaction.


injection site reaction


Injection site reaction occurred during placebo-controlled clinical trials. Injection site redness (58%), edema (10%), and pain (9%) were reported at incidences greater than placebo in clinical trials with postmenopausal women. Redness, edema, and pain were reported as severe in 2.9%, 0.4%, and 0.4% of abaloparatide of patients, respectively. Reactions reported during abaloparatide treatment in men with osteoporosis include erythema (13%), swelling (7%), and pain (6%). Injection site reactions including bruising, hemorrhage, pruritus, and rash have been reported during postmarketing experience with abaloparatide.


hypercalcemia


Hypercalcemia can occur with the administration of abaloparatide. During clinical trials of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, hypercalcemia (defined as albumin-corrected serum calcium 10.7 mg/dL or greater 4 hours after injection) occurred in 3% of patients receiving abaloparatide and at an incidence higher than placebo (0.1%). Baseline serum calcium was similar in both groups. The incidence of hypercalcemia was higher in women with mild or moderate renal impairment (4%) compared to those with normal renal function (1%). In men with osteoporosis, hypercalcemia (defined as albumin-corrected serum calcium 10.8 mg/dL or greater 4 hours after injection) occurred in 3% of patients receiving abaloparatide. No patients receiving placebo experienced hypercalcemia, and baseline serum calcium was similar in both groups. The incidence of hypercalcemia was higher in men with mild or moderate renal impairment (4%) compared to those with normal renal function (0%).


hyperuricemia


Hyperuricemia may occur during the administration of abaloparatide. During the postmenopausal clinical trials, among women with normal baseline uric acid concentrations, 25% of patients receiving abaloparatide had at least 1 concentration above normal vs. placebo (6%). Among men with osteoporosis with normal baseline uric acid concentrations, 7% treated with abaloparatide had at least 1 concentration above normal vs. 6% treated with placebo. There was no difference in the incidence of gout or arthralgia between treatment groups in postmenopausal women or men.


hypercalciuria, nephrolithiasis


Hypercalciuria and nephrolithiasis (urolithiasis) have been reported with the use of abaloparatide. During clinical trials of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, hypercalciuria was reported in 11% of those receiving abaloparatide. The incidence of a urine calcium:creatinine ratio greater than 400 mg/gram was higher in those receiving abaloparatide than placebo (20% vs. 15%). Urolithiasis was reported in 2.1% of patients receiving abaloparatide and in 1.7% of the placebo group. Urolithiasis was reported in 2% of men with osteoporosis treated with abaloparatide (n = 149) compared to 1% of men treated with placebo (n = 79) during a randomized, double-blind trial. The incidence of a urine calcium: creatinine ratio of more than 400 mg/gram was not greater with abaloparatide treatment than with placebo.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting


During abaloparatide postmenopausal osteoporosis clinical trials, nausea was reported in 8% of patients (vs. 3% placebo) and was the most common adverse reaction leading to study drug discontinuation (2%). Upper abdominal pain was reported in 3% of patients (vs. 2% placebo). Abdominal distension, diarrhea, and nausea (each 3% abaloparatide vs. 0% placebo) and abdominal pain (2% abaloparatide vs. 0% placebo) were reported during a clinical trial in men with osteoporosis. Abdominal distension, abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, and vomiting have been reported during postmarketing experience with abaloparatide.


asthenia, fatigue, headache, insomnia, lethargy, malaise, vertigo


During abaloparatide postmenopausal osteoporosis clinical trials, headache was reported in 8% of those receiving abaloparatide and was one of the most common adverse reactions leading to study drug discontinuation (1%). Fatigue was reported more often in the abaloparatide group (3%) than the placebo group, and vertigo was reported in 2% of both treatment groups. Insomnia, asthenia, lethargy, and malaise have been reported during postmarketing experience with abaloparatide.


arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, muscle cramps


Arthralgia was reported in 7% of men with osteoporosis treated with abaloparatide (n = 149) compared to 1% of men treated with placebo (n = 79) during a randomized, double-blind trial. Other reported adverse reactions in men with osteoporosis include bone pain (2% abaloparatide vs. 0% placebo) and contusion (3% abaloparatide vs. 0% placebo). Muscle cramps (spasms) of the leg and back, bone pain, back pain, extremity pain, arthralgia, and generalized pain have been reported during postmarketing experience with abaloparatide.


new primary malignancy, osteogenic sarcoma


Abaloparatide may increase the risk of osteogenic sarcoma (osteosarcoma), a new primary malignancy. Osteosarcoma has been reported in patients with a PTH-analog in the postmarketing setting; however, increased risk has not been observed in observational human trials. There are limited data assessing risk beyond 2 years of therapy. Abaloparatide has been associated with an increased incidence of osteosarcoma in rat studies. The increased incidence was dependent on dose and duration of treatment; systemic exposure to abaloparatide in rats ranged from 4 to 28 times the exposure given to humans in an 80 mcg daily dose. The relevance of these animal osteosarcoma findings is uncertain relative to humans; however, the potential risk should be considered. Abaloparatide use has not been evaluated beyond 2 years; use beyond 2 years is not recommended.


antibody formation


Of the postmenopausal women receiving abaloparatide for 18 months, 41% (318/773) developed anti-abaloparatide antibodies, and 26% (204/773) had neutralizing antibody formation to abaloparatide. Of the patients with anti-abaloparatide antibodies tested for cross-reactivity, 2.4% (7/297) developed cross-reactivity to PTHrP and 43% (3/7) developed neutralizing antibodies to PTHrP. Only 0.3% (1/297) developed cross-reactive antibodies to PTH that were not neutralizing to PTH. Antibody formation did not appear to have any clinically significant impact on safety or efficacy endpoints, including bone mineral density (BMD) response, fracture reduction, or other adverse reactions. Most (86%) of the patients with anti-abaloparatide antibodies during treatment had follow-up antibody measurements every 6 months after completion of therapy until seroconverting to antibody negative or being lost to follow-up. Among these patients, 127 remained antibody positive at 1 year after treatment discontinuation, 55 remained antibody positive at 2 years, and 6 remained antibody positive at 3 years. After 12 moths of treatment with abaloparatide, 25% (36/142) of male patients developed anti-abaloparatide antibodies and 1.4% (2/142) had neutralizing antibody formation to abalolparatide. Among patients with with anti-abaloparatide antibodies who were tested for cross-reactivity, no patients developed cross-reactivity to PTHrP or PTH. Antibody formation did not appear to have any clinically significant impact on safety or efficacy endpoints, including bone mineral density (BMD) response or adverse reactions.


Description

Abaloparatide is an analog of human parathyroid hormone related peptide [PTHrP(1-34)] and is an anabolic agent that stimulates new bone growth. Abaloparatide is indicated for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis and primary or hypogonadal osteoporosis in men. Abaloparatide is recommended only in people at a high risk of fracture (e.g., history of osteoporotic fracture or with multiple risk factors for fracture), or who have failed or are intolerant of other available osteoporosis therapy. Abaloparatide significantly improves bone mineral density in the hip, femoral neck, and lumbar spine and reduces the risk of vertebral and nonvertebral fractures in the indicated populations. Due to less direct outcomes evidence versus other anabolic treatments for osteoporosis (e.g., teriparatide), the need for daily injections, high cost, and potential adverse event profile, abaloparatide is usually reserved for people with a very high risk for fracture or who have failed/sustained fractures despite antiresorptive treatments, or for people who have been intolerant to other treatments. After discontinuation of abaloparatide, the use of antiresorptive therapy (e.g., bisphosphonates or denosumab) is necessary to prevent rebound bone loss and continued reduction of fracture risk. Avoid abaloparatide use in people with increased risk of osteosarcoma or hereditary risk factors for osteosarcoma. The cumulative use of abaloparatide for more than 2 years during a person's lifetime is not recommended. Abaloparatide was FDA-approved in 2017.

Mechanism Of Action

Abaloparatide is a synthetic peptide analog of the parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP 1-34), which acts as an agonist at the PTH1 receptor (PTH1R) with greater selectivity than teriparatide. Binding to the PTH1R results in activation of the cAMP signaling pathway in target cells. New bone formation on trabecular and cortical bone surfaces occurs through stimulation of osteoblastic activity with once-daily administration of abaloparatide. In animal studies, abaloparatide had an anabolic effect on bone, resulting in increased bone mineral density (BMD) and bone mineral content that correlated with increases in bone strength at vertebral and/or nonvertebral sites. When administered once daily for 24 weeks, a dose-response relationship was observed for BMD and bone formation markers in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis.

Pharmacokinetics

Abaloparatide is administered subcutaneously. Plasma protein binding is approximately 70%, and the volume of distribution is 50 L. The half-life of abaloparatide is approximately 1 hour. No specific metabolism studies have been performed with abaloparatide. Metabolism is consistent with non-specific proteolytic degradation into smaller peptide fragments. Peptide fragments are primarily eliminated through renal excretion.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: None
No metabolism-related drug interactions are expected. Abaloparatide does not inhibit or induce CYP450 enzymes, and it is not a substrate of OAT1, OAT3, OCT2, MATE1, OR MATE2K.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Subcutaneous Route

After 7 days of subcutaneous administration of abaloparatide 80 mcg/day, the mean maximal concentration Cmax (SD) was 812 (118) pg/mL and the mean (SD) exposure was 1,622 (641) pg x hour/mL for AUC in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. The mean time to peak concentration (Tmax) was 0.51 hour (0.25 to 0.52 hour) after subcutaneous administration. The absolute bioavailability of abaloparatide in healthy women after subcutaneous administration of an 80 mcg dose was 36%.

Renal Impairment

In a small pharmacokinetic study, abaloparatide was administered to male and female patients with mild renal impairment (CrCl 60 to 89 mL/minute), moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 59 mL/minute), and severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute). The abaloparatide Cmax increased 1-, 1.3-, and 1.4-fold in patients with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment, respectively, and AUC increased 1.2-, 1.7-, and 2.1-fold, respectively. Patients undergoing dialysis were not included in the study.

Geriatric

No differences in abaloparatide pharmacokinetics were observed in postmenopausal women and men ranging from 18 to 85 years of age.

Gender Differences

The mean serum concentration-time profiles of abaloparatide were comparable between healthy men with a mean age of 53.1 (+/- 6.9) years and healthy women with a mean age of 53.7 (+/- 7.1) years with the same dosing regimen.

Ethnic Differences

No differences in abaloparatide pharmacokinetics based on race were observed based in clinical trials.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Abaloparatide is a clear, colorless solution. Do not use if solid particles appear or if the solution is cloudy or colored.


Subcutaneous Administration

General Information
For subcutaneous use only. Do not administer intravenously or intramuscularly.
Abaloparatide is available as a prefilled pen (TYMLOS pen) containing 30 doses of abaloparatide (each dose contains 80 mcg in 40 mcL).
Needles are NOT included with the pen. The patient will need a separate prescription for the needles. The correct needles to use with the pen are 5 mm to 8 mm, 31-gauge. Compatible needles include Clickfine, BD Ultra-Fine, MedtFine, Easy Comfort, Clever Choice, Comfort EZ, and SureComfort.
Abaloparatide pens should never be shared among patients. Even if the disposable needle is changed, sharing may result in transmission of hepatitis viruses, HIV, or other blood-borne pathogens. Do not share pens among multiple patients in an inpatient setting. Reserve the use of any pen for 1 patient only.
Storage: Prior to the first use, store the pen in the refrigerator (do not freeze). After the first use, store the pen for up to 30 days at room temperature between 68 to 77 degrees F (20 to 25 degrees C); do not freeze the pen or expose it to heat. Keep the pen cap on the pen when not in use. Do not store the pen with a needle attached. Use the pen only for 30 days. Properly dispose of the pen 30 days after first opening it even if it still contains unused medicine.
 
Subcutaneous Administration (TYMLOS Pen)
Patients and caregivers should receive proper training and instruction on the proper use of the abaloparatide pen. See the "Instructions for Use".
Monitoring: Orthostatic hypotension usually occurs within 4 hours of injection. Symptoms include dizziness, palpitations, tachycardia or nausea. For the first several doses, abaloparatide should be administered where the patient can sit or lie down if necessary.
Pull off the pen cap from the pen. Keep the pen cap for storage between injections. Check the pen cartridge. The liquid should be clear, colorless, and free of particles; if not, do not use.
Keep the needle straight and screw it onto the pen until fixed; a secure fit is ensured even if there is no noticeable stop. Do not over-tighten.
Pull off the outer pen needle cap from the pen needle and keep it to re-cap the needle after the injection.
Carefully pull off the inner pen needle cap and dispose of it.
Each new pen must be primed prior to the first use only. This step removes air bubbles from the pen.
Turn the dose knob on the pen away from you (clockwise) until it stops. You will see "80" lined up in the dose display window.
Hold the pen with the pen needle pointing up. Tap lightly with your finger on the cartridge holder to move any air bubbles in the cartridge to the top of the cartridge.
Press the green injection button until it will not go any further. You will see "0" lined up in the dose display window. A drop of liquid should come out of the needle tip. If not, repeat the priming steps.
Set the patient's dose on the pen by turning the dose knob on the pen away from you (clockwise) until the dose knob stops and "80" is lined up in the dose display window.
Choose and clean an injection site in the periumbilical region of the abdomen. Avoid the 2-inch area around the navel. Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, scaly, or hard. Avoid areas with scars or stretch marks.
Insert the pen needle straight into the patient's skin.
Press the green injection button on the pen until it cannot go any further and "0" is in the dose display window. Do not move the pen after inserting the needle.
Continue to press the green injection button while counting to 10. Counting to 10 will allow the full dose to be given.
After counting to 10, release the green injection button and slowly remove the pen from the injection site by pulling the pen needle straight out.
Carefully place the outer needle cap back on the pen needle. Press on the outer needle cap until it snaps into place and is secure.
Unscrew the used, capped needle from the pen. To unscrew the capped needle you may need to turn it 8 or more turns and then gently pull until the capped needle comes off. Properly dispose of the used needle.
Firmly replace the pen cap onto the pen. Keep the pen cap on the pen for storage between injections.
Rotate site of injection daily and administer at approximately the same time every day.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

80 mcg/day subcutaneously.

Geriatric

80 mcg/day subcutaneously.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

TYMLOS 80mcg/dose Prefilled Pen Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier