=== Aspirin/Butalbital/Caffeine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 877)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 6 tablets or capsules/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, excitability, lethargy, tolerance, gi bleeding, insomnia, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, tremor, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic necrosis, hyperbilirubinemia, hypertension, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, maculopapular rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis, azotemia, polyuria, proteinuria, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia

In an Overdose: Cardiac arrhythmias, seizures, and delirium are possible after deliberate overdoses. When aspirin is associated with dermatologic reactions it is usually reported in patients who receive aspirin therapy for > 1 week continually or with overdosage.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Aspirin; butalbital; caffeine is contraindicated in individuals with aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps...

ASPIRIN/BUTALBITAL/CAFFEINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Fiorinal, Fortabs

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of tension headache

Oral dosage (tablets or capsules containing aspirin 325 mg, butalbital 50 mg, and caffeine 40 mg)
Adults


1 to 2 tablets or capsules PO every 4 hours as needed. Max: 6 tablets or capsules/day.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, asthma


Aspirin; butalbital; caffeine is contraindicated in individuals with aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps, severe and potentially fatal acute bronchospasm, and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. When aspirin is used in individuals with pre-existing asthma without known aspirin sensitivity, monitor for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma.


bleeding disorder, ethanol ingestion, gastrointestinal lesion, peptic ulcer disease


Aspirin; butalbital; caffeine is contraindicated in individuals with a bleeding disorder (e.g., hemophilia, hypoprothrombinemia, von Willebrand disease, thrombocytopenia, thrombasthenia and other ill-defined hereditary platelet dysfunctions, severe vitamin K deficiency, and severe liver damage) and peptic ulcer disease or other serious gastrointestinal lesion. Aspirin increases bleeding risk; risk factors for bleeding include ethanol ingestion, age 60 years and older, and the use of other drugs that increase the risk of bleeding (e.g., anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents, and chronic NSAID therapy).


porphyria


Aspirin; butalbital; caffeine is contraindicated in individuals with porphyria.


influenza, varicella


Use aspirin; butalbital; caffeine with caution in pediatric populations who have or are recovering from varicella (chicken pox) or influenza due to the risk of Reye syndrome.


hepatic failure


Use aspirin; butalbital; caffeine with caution in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. Aspirin; butalbital; caffeine is contraindicated in individuals with bleeding diathesis due to severe liver damage. Monitor serial liver function tests in individuals with severe hepatic impairment.


renal disease


Use aspirin; butalbital; caffeine with caution in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure. Monitor serial renal function tests in individuals with severe renal impairment. Avoid aspirin in individuals with severe renal failure (i.e., GFR less than 10 mL/minute). Aspirin use decreases GFR and renal blood flow, especially in individuals with pre-existing renal disease. The regular use of aspirin is associated with a dose-dependent increased risk of chronic renal failure.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration during aspirin; butalbital; caffeine therapy. Aspirin; butalbital; caffeine may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for performance of potentially hazardous tasks.


acute abdomen, head trauma, hypothyroidism, increased intracranial pressure, primary adrenal insufficiency, prostatic hypertrophy, urethral stricture


Use aspirin; butalbital; caffeine with caution in individuals with acute abdomen, prostatic hypertrophy, urethral stricture, hypothyroidism, primary adrenal insufficiency, head trauma, or increased intracranial pressure.


geriatric


Use aspirin; butalbital; caffeine with caution in geriatric adults or debilitated individuals. Aspirin increases bleeding risk; risk factors for bleeding include age 60 years and older. According to the Beers Criteria, aspirin is considered a potentially inappropriate medication (PIM) for use in geriatric adults. Aspirin may cause new or worsening gastric or duodenal ulcers, and there is an increased risk of GI bleeding and peptic ulcer disease in high-risk groups including those more than 75 years of age, or those taking oral or parenteral corticosteroids, anticoagulants, or antiplatelet medications. The risk of ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation is cumulative with continued use. The Beers panel also recommends avoiding chronic use of aspirin doses more than 325 mg/day in high-risk individuals, including those with a history of gastric or duodenal ulcers, unless other alternatives are not effective and the individual can take a gastroprotective agent. The use of a gastroprotective agent, like a proton-pump inhibitor or misoprostol, reduces but does not eliminate, GI risks. Barbiturates such as butalbital are also considered PIMs in geriatric adults and should be avoided due to the high rate of physical dependence, tolerance to sedative effects, and risk of overdose at low dosages. Avoid barbiturate-containing medication products in those with a history of fall or fractures since these drugs can produce ataxia, impaired psychomotor function, syncope, and additional falls. If butalbital must be used, consider reducing the use of other CNS-active medications and implement other strategies to reduce fall risk.


adolescents, children, infants


The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes aspirin as a potentially inappropriate medication for use in infants, children, and adolescents with suspicion of a viral illness and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use aspirin; butalbital; caffeine with caution and appropriate monitoring.


labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy


Combination products containing aspirin are not recommended for use during pregnancy, as aspirin dosages within these products may cause risk to the fetus and pregnant person. Avoid the use of NSAIDs, including regular-strength aspirin, during pregnancy starting at 30 weeks gestation due to the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. When use is necessary between 20 and 30 weeks gestation, limit use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if treatment exceeds 48 hours. Discontinue the NSAID if oligohydramnios develops, and follow up according to clinical practice. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks gestation and later may also cause fetal renal dysfunction, leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some cases, invasive neonatal procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis have been required. Salicylates have also been associated with alterations in maternal and neonatal hemostasis mechanisms, decreased birth weight, and perinatal mortality. It is recommended to avoid the use of aspirin 1 week prior to and during labor and obstetric delivery due to the potential for excessive blood loss at delivery. Prolonged gestation and labor due to prostaglandin inhibition have been reported. Withdrawal seizures were reported in a 2-day-old infant who was exposed to a butalbital-containing drug in utero during the last 2 months of pregnancy. Butalbital was found in the infant's serum. The infant was given phenobarbital 5 mg/kg, which was tapered without further seizure or other withdrawal symptoms. Use caffeine-containing medications with caution during pregnancy. Caffeine crosses the placenta and distributes to embryo-fetal tissues. Animal studies suggest teratogenicity, with a small increase in fetal cleft palate and exencephaly after exposure during organogenesis. Limit caffeine intake from all sources to less than 200 mg/day during pregnancy. Moderate intake below this level does not appear to be a major contributor to miscarriage or preterm birth and has not been consistently associated with congenital malformations in humans. Higher intake levels have been associated with inconsistent fetal risk signals. Interpretation of human data is limited by confounding, exposure variability, and bias.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with aspirin. NSAIDs may delay or prevent prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in people who may become pregnant who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking aspirin; butalbital; caffeine. Aspirin, caffeine, and barbiturates are all excreted in human milk. Salicylates are excreted into human milk, with higher doses resulting in disproportionately higher milk levels, which could cause adverse effects in the breastfed child. Mean peak breast milk concentrations of salicylate in 6 lactating individuals after aspirin doses of 500, 1,000, and 1,500 mg were 5.8, 15.8, and 38.8 mg/L, respectively. Salicylate concentrations were detectable in breast milk within 1 hour of dosing and reached maximum concentration within 2 to 6 hours. Butalbital in breast milk has caused poor feeding and vomiting in one infant. Other agents are preferred, especially when feeding a newborn or preterm infant. Caffeine-containing drug products should be used cautiously during lactation due to their high caffeine content. Caffeine appears in human milk rapidly after ingestion. Peak caffeine milk levels usually occur within 1 hour after the ingestion of a caffeinated beverage, with milk: plasma ratios of 0.5 to 0.7 reported. Some sources suggest limiting caffeine intake (e.g., 300 to 500 mg per day or less) if breast-feeding. Lower intake is suggested for those who are breast-feeding preterm and newborn infants, as these infants have slower caffeine metabolism and may have caffeine concentrations after breast-feeding that approximate maternal levels. High caffeine intake (more than 500 mg/day) by a breast-feeding individual may cause irritability or poor sleeping patterns in the breast-fed child. Alternative analgesics and antipyretics considered to be usually compatible with breast-feeding include acetaminophen and ibuprofen.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Combination products containing aspirin are not recommended for use during pregnancy, as aspirin dosages within these products may cause risk to the fetus and pregnant person. Avoid the use of NSAIDs, including regular-strength aspirin, during pregnancy starting at 30 weeks gestation due to the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. When use is necessary between 20 and 30 weeks gestation, limit use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if treatment exceeds 48 hours. Discontinue the NSAID if oligohydramnios develops, and follow up according to clinical practice. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks gestation and later may also cause fetal renal dysfunction, leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some cases, invasive neonatal procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis have been required. Salicylates have also been associated with alterations in maternal and neonatal hemostasis mechanisms, decreased birth weight, and perinatal mortality. It is recommended to avoid the use of aspirin 1 week prior to and during labor and obstetric delivery due to the potential for excessive blood loss at delivery. Prolonged gestation and labor due to prostaglandin inhibition have been reported. Withdrawal seizures were reported in a 2-day-old infant who was exposed to a butalbital-containing drug in utero during the last 2 months of pregnancy. Butalbital was found in the infant's serum. The infant was given phenobarbital 5 mg/kg, which was tapered without further seizure or other withdrawal symptoms. Use caffeine-containing medications with caution during pregnancy. Caffeine crosses the placenta and distributes to embryo-fetal tissues. Animal studies suggest teratogenicity, with a small increase in fetal cleft palate and exencephaly after exposure during organogenesis. Limit caffeine intake from all sources to less than 200 mg/day during pregnancy. Moderate intake below this level does not appear to be a major contributor to miscarriage or preterm birth and has not been consistently associated with congenital malformations in humans. Higher intake levels have been associated with inconsistent fetal risk signals. Interpretation of human data is limited by confounding, exposure variability, and bias.


Interactions

Abemaciclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Acarbose: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Acetaminophen: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when dihydrocodeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with a barbiturate can decrease dihydrocodeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased dihydromorphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of dihydrocodeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may decrease oxycodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors whenever possible. There were reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death with high-dose aspirin and acetazolamide. Two mechanisms could cause increased acetazolamide concentrations, resulting in CNS depression and metabolic acidosis: first, competition with aspirin for renal tubular secretion and, second, displacement by salicylates from plasma protein binding sites. Additionally, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors alkalinize urine and increase the excretion of normal doses of salicylates; decreased plasma salicylate concentrations may or may not be clinically significant. (Minor) Acetazolamide can induce osteomalacia in patients treated chronically with barbiturates. Potential mechanisms for this interaction include a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor induced increase in the urinary excretion of calcium and an increase in barbiturate effects resulting from metabolic acidosis. Acetazolamide can also increase the rate of excretion of weakly acidic drugs, such as barbiturates.
Acetohydroxamic Acid: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Acidifying Agents: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acoramidis: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of acyclovir is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and acyclovir is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of adagrasib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased adagrasib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Adagrasib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced adagrasib exposure by more than 66%.
Adenosine: (Major) Larger doses of adenosine may be required or adenosine may not be effective in the presence of methylxanthines. The effects of adenosine are antagonized by methylxanthines. When used for diagnostic purposes, instruct patients to avoid consumption of methylxanthine-containing products, including caffeinated beverages, for at least 5 half-lives prior to the imaging study.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Aficamten: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to budesonide. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to budesonide during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Alendronate: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of alfentanil with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of alfentanil with a barbiturate may decrease alfentanil plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; alfentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Allopurinol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of allopurinol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and allopurinol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Amantadine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Amikacin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aminoglycosides: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in amiodarone efficacy during concomitant use of amiodarone and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease amiodarone exposure. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of amiodarone is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and amiodarone is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
amLODIPine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Amoxapine: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of amoxapine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Amoxicillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amoxicillin; Clavulanic Acid: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B: (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Ampicillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects. (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Large doses of salicylates (more than 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and antithrombin III should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Apixaban: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Apremilast: (Major) The coadministration of apremilast and barbiturates is not recommended. Apremilast is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4, with minor metabolism by CYP1A2; barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers and also induce CYP1A2. Coadministration of rifampin, another strong CYP3A4 inducer, with a single dose of apremilast resulted in a decrease in apremilast AUC and Cmax by 72% and 43%, respectively. A similar reduction in systemic exposure may be seen with coadministration of apremilast and barbiturates which may result in a loss of efficacy of apremilast.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Armodafinil: (Major) It is not clear how armodafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Armodafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased armodafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of armodafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining armodafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if armodafinil can affect seizure control. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with armodafinil. Caffeine should be used cautiously with armodafinil. Intake of caffeine should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or other side effects.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) The barbiturates are inducers and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to a possible reduction in antimalarial activity.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin C: (Minor) Agents that acidify the urine should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urinary pH changes can decrease salicylate excretion. However, if the urine is acidic prior to administration of an acidifying agent, the increase in salicylic acid concentrations should be minimal.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Major) Methylxanthines, through antagonism of adenosine and thus pharmacologic-induced coronary vasodilation, have been associated with false-negative results during dipyridamole-thallium 201 stress testing. It is recommended that methylxanthines (caffeine, caffeinated beverages and foods, theophylline, etc.) be discontinued for at least 24 hours prior to stress testing. An interaction is not expected when methylxanthines are used concomitantly with chronic dipyridamole therapy. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of aspirin and dipyridamole; both medications interfere with platelet aggregation and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding. For patients undergoing a dipyridamole nuclear stress test and receiving combination aspirin; dipyridamole, hold aspirin; dipyridamole for 48 hours prior to the stress test; concomitant use may increase the risk for cardiovascular side effects and impair the sensitivity of the test.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may decrease oxycodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Atazanavir: (Major) Coadministration of butalbital and atazanavir may increase the metabolism of atazanavir and lead to decreased atazanavir concentrations resulting in reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and development of viral resistance. If atazanavir and butalbital are used together, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of butalbital and atazanavir may increase the metabolism of atazanavir and lead to decreased atazanavir concentrations resulting in reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and development of viral resistance. If atazanavir and butalbital are used together, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Atogepant: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and barbiturates when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Atorvastatin: (Minor) CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates may decrease the efficacy of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when these drugs are co-administered.
Atrasentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with barbiturates can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Avanafil: (Minor) Avanafil is a substrate of and primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. It can be expected that concomitant administration of CYP3A4 enzyme-inducers will decrease plasma levels of avanafil, however, no interaction studies have been performed. CYP3A4 inducers include barbiturates.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with butalbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Avatrombopag: (Major) In patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), double the initial dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with barbiturates. In patients starting barbiturates while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the avatrombopag dose as necessary. Dosage adjustments are not required for patients with chronic liver disease. Concomitant use may decrease avatrombopag exposure and reduce its efficacy. Avatrombopag is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer reduced avatrombopag overall exposure by 43%.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Axitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with butalbital if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Azelastine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine, an antihistamine, is combined with CNS depressants including the barbiturates.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine, an antihistamine, is combined with CNS depressants including the barbiturates. (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to fluticasone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to fluticasone during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bacitracin: (Minor) Additive nephrotoxicity may occur with concurrent use of systemic bacitracin and other nephrotoxic agents, including salicylates. Topical administration of any preparation containing bacitracin, especially when applied to large surface areas, also should not be given with other drugs that have a nephrotoxic potential.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in baxdrostat efficacy during concomitant use with barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease baxdrostat exposure. Baxdrostat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of barbiturates with bedaquiline. Barbiturates may induce CYP3A4 metabolism resulting in decreased bedaquiline systemic exposure (AUC) and possibly reduced therapeutic effect.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opium with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if barbiturate treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Barbiturates may decrease bendamustine exposure, which may result in decreased efficacy. Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are CYP1A2 inducers.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of benzhydrocodone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with a barbiturate may decrease benzhydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; benzhydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Benzodiazepines: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of benzphetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Benztropine: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of benztropine.
Beta-agonists: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for reduced lenacapavir exposure, which may lead to loss of therapeutic efficacy and development of resistance. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with barbiturates is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day barbiturates are initiated, which should be at least 2 days after lenacapavir initiation, a supplemental dose of 927 mg subcutaneously and 600 mg orally should be given (Step 1). The following day, an additional oral dose of 600 mg should be administered (Step 2). If the barbiturate is continued for longer than 6 months, this 2-step supplemental dosing regimen must be repeated every 6 months. After discontinuation of barbiturates, the standard 6-month injection schedule for lenacapavir should be resumed. Recommendations are not available for those already on barbiturates at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 84%.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Because bortezomib undergoes significant metabolism by the cytochrome P450 system, induction of CYP450 enzymes by the barbiturates may increase the clearance and metabolism of this drug and may result in decreased therapeutic effects.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Because brexpiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the brexpiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates and primidone, are added to brexpiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in brexpiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the brexpiprazole dose should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with butalbital due to decreased plasma exposure to brigatinib which may result in decreased efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, after 7 days of concomitant treatment with butalbital, increase the dose of brigatinib as tolerated in 30 mg increments to a maximum of twice the original brigatinib dose. After discontinuation of butalbital, resume the brigatinib dose that was tolerated prior to initiation of butalbital. Brigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 50%.
Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Brimonidine; Brinzolamide: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates. (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Brivaracetam: (Minor) Plasma concentrations of brivaracetam may decrease during co-administration with barbiturates. A 19% decrease in the plasma concentration of brivaracetam was observed during co-administration with phenobarbital; however, no dose adjustment is recommended for brivaracetam during concomitant therapy.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Caution and close monitoring are advised if bromocriptine and butalbital are used together. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of bromocriptine resulting in loss of efficacy. Bromocriptine is extensively metabolized by the liver via CYP3A4; butalbital is a moderate inducer of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects and reduced efficacy of both medications if concomitant use of bromocriptine and a salicylate is necessary. Both medications are highly protein-bound and concomitant use may increase the unbound fraction of drug in circulation increasing the risk for adverse effects or enhancing drug elimination and reducing overall drug exposure.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as brompheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as brompheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as brompheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as brompheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as brompheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to budesonide. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to budesonide during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to budesonide. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to budesonide during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to budesonide. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to budesonide during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce these isoenzymes and if given concurrently with bupivacaine may decrease the efficacy of bupivacaine.
BUPivacaine: (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce these isoenzymes and if given concurrently with bupivacaine may decrease the efficacy of bupivacaine.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce these isoenzymes and if given concurrently with bupivacaine may decrease the efficacy of bupivacaine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Minor) Bupivacaine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce these isoenzymes and if given concurrently with bupivacaine may decrease the efficacy of bupivacaine.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Close monitoring of the patient is recommended if a CYP3A4 inducer is used with buprenorphine. Inducers of CYP3A4 such as phenobarbital may induce the hepatic metabolism of buprenorphine, which may lead to opiate withdrawal or inadequate pain control. It is likely that all barbiturates exert the same effect as phenobarbital. This interaction is most significant if the enzyme-inducing agent is added after buprenorphine therapy has begun. Buprenorphine doses may need to be increased if any of these agents are added. Conversely, buprenorphine doses may need to be decreased if these drugs are discontinued. Additive CNS depression may be the more important issue initially when barbiturates are given with buprenorphine; the induction of buprenorphine metabolism may take several days. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Close monitoring of the patient is recommended if a CYP3A4 inducer is used with buprenorphine. Inducers of CYP3A4 such as phenobarbital may induce the hepatic metabolism of buprenorphine, which may lead to opiate withdrawal or inadequate pain control. It is likely that all barbiturates exert the same effect as phenobarbital. This interaction is most significant if the enzyme-inducing agent is added after buprenorphine therapy has begun. Buprenorphine doses may need to be increased if any of these agents are added. Conversely, buprenorphine doses may need to be decreased if these drugs are discontinued. Additive CNS depression may be the more important issue initially when barbiturates are given with buprenorphine; the induction of buprenorphine metabolism may take several days. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy. (Moderate) Bupropion may interact with drugs that induce hepatic microsomal isoenzyme function via CYP2B6 such as the barbiturates. While not systematically studied, these drugs may induce the metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure. If bupropion is used concomitantly with a CYP inducer, it may be necessary to increase the dose of bupropion, but the maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded. Advise patients that until they are reasonably certain that the combination does not adversely affect their performance, they should refrain from driving an automobile or operating complex, hazardous machinery.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy. (Moderate) Bupropion may interact with drugs that induce hepatic microsomal isoenzyme function via CYP2B6 such as the barbiturates. While not systematically studied, these drugs may induce the metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure. If bupropion is used concomitantly with a CYP inducer, it may be necessary to increase the dose of bupropion, but the maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded. Advise patients that until they are reasonably certain that the combination does not adversely affect their performance, they should refrain from driving an automobile or operating complex, hazardous machinery.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced anxiolytic effect of buspirone. Potent inducers of CYP3A4, such as the barbiturates, may increase the rate of buspirone metabolism. If a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage on buspirone, a dose adjustment of buspirone may be necessary to maintain anxiolytic effect. There is also a risk of additive CNS depression (drowsiness) when buspirone is given concomitantly with barbiturates. In a study in healthy volunteers, co-administration of buspirone with a potent CYP3A4 inducer decreased the plasma concentrations (83.7% decrease in Cmax; 89.6% decrease in AUC) and pharmacodynamic effects of buspirone. (Minor) In vitro studies showed that therapeutic levels of aspirin, ASA increased the plasma concentrations of free buspirone by 23% through plasma protein binding displacement. In vivo interaction studies with these drugs have not been performed.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates, can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering barbiturates with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Barbiturates are inducers of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Cabozantinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of cabozantinib and barbiturates. If use is necessary, increase the cabozantinib dosage; specific recommendations vary by cabozantinib dosage form. For patients taking cabozantinib tablets, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 20 mg (e.g., 60 mg/day to 80 mg/day; 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day) up to a maximum daily dose of 80 mg. For patients taking cabozantinib capsules, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 40 mg (e.g., 140 mg/day to 180 mg/day or 100 mg/day to 140 mg/day) up to a maximum daily dose of 180 mg. Cabozantinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased cabozantinib overall exposure by 77%.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Certain foods that contain high amounts of caffeine or theobromine should be limited during the therapeutic use of caffeine in order to limit additive methylxanthine effects. While taking Caffeine-containing medicines, limit the use of foods, beverages (examples: coffee, tea, colas), herbs (examples: guarana, green tea) and other products that contain additional caffeine, such as chocolate and some non-prescription medications or dietary supplements for headache, insomnia, or weight loss. Too much Caffeine can cause effects like nausea, nervousness, or sleeplessness. Some drug products for adults that contain caffeine have about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Calcifediol: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of calcifediol may be necessary during coadministration with barbiturates. Additionally, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, intact PTH, and calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with barbiturates. Barbiturates stimulate microsomal hydroxylation and reduce the half-life of calcifediol. In rare cases, this has caused anticonvulsant-induced rickets and osteomalacia.
Calcitriol: (Moderate) Barbiturates can decrease the activity of vitamin D by increasing its metabolism. In rare cases, this has caused anticonvulsant-induced rickets and osteomalacia. Vitamin D supplementation may be required in patients with inadequate dietary intake of vitamin D who are receiving chronic treatment with barbiturates.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate. (Moderate) Caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously with oxybates. Monitor for potential side effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Consider a dose reduction of caffeine as clinically appropriate, if adverse reactions occur when administered with cannabidiol. Increased caffeine exposure is possible. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and cannabidiol is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence and reduced cannabidiol efficacy during coadministration with barbiturates. Central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as barbiturates, may potentiate the sedative effects of cannabidiol. Coadministration may also decrease cannabidiol plasma concentrations and reduce its therapeutic effect. Barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and cannabidiol is a CYP3A substrate.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capivasertib with barbiturates due to decreased capivasertib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the capivasertib overall exposure by 70%.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and aspirin when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Capreomycin: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Captopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including barbiturates.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate hepatic metabolism of carbamazepine due to induction of hepatic microsomal enzyme activity. Carbamazepine serum concentrations should be monitored closely if a barbiturate is added or discontinued during therapy. (Minor) Carbamazepine may induce caffeine metabolism via induction of the hepatic CYP1A2 isoenzyme.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as carbinoxamine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Cardiac glycosides: (Moderate) Hepatic enzyme inducing drugs, such as barbiturates, can accelerate the metabolism of digoxin, decreasing its serum concentrations. It is recommended that digoxin concentrations be monitored if used with barbiturates.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additive central nervous system (CNS) depression may also occur. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Cefixime: (Minor) In vitro, salicylates have displaced cefixime from its protein-binding sites, resulting in a 50% increase in free cefixime levels. The clinical significance of this effect is unclear at this time.
cefoTEtan: (Minor) Cefotetan has been associated with hypoprothrombinemia and may cause additive effects when given concurrently with salicylates.
Celecoxib: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of tramadol with a barbiturate can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of seizures, serotonin syndrome, and the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and butalbital. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as dexchlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorambucil: (Minor) Barbiturates appear to increase the hepatic activation of chlorambucil to its active metabolite than to inactive metabolite. Clinicians should be alert for a potential increase in chlorambucil related activity and/or toxicity.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Chloramphenicol inhibits the cytochrome P-450 enzyme system and can affect the hepatic metabolism of phenobarbital. Phenobarbital levels rise modestly. It is also possible that plasma concentrations of chloramphenicol can be reduced by concomitant use of barbiturates, agents that are known to stimulate hepatic microsomal enzymes responsible for chloramphenicol metabolism.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of chlordiazepoxide. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of chlordiazepoxide. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of chlordiazepoxide. Chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as chlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant administration of cidofovir and NSAIDs, such as aspirin, is contraindicated due to the potential for increased nephrotoxicity. Aspirin should be discontinued 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Cimetidine: (Minor) Inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as cimetidine, may inhibit the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine. In patients who complain of caffeine-related side effects caffeine dosage or intake may need to be reduced.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Reduction or limitation of the caffeine dosage in medications and limitation of caffeine in beverages and food may be necessary during concurrent ciprofloxacin therapy. Ciprofloxacin can decrease the clearance of caffeine. Caffeine toxicity may occur and can manifest as nausea, vomiting, anxiety, tachycardia, or seizures. Ciprofloxacin is a CYP1A2 inhibitor and caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate.
Citalopram: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as clemastine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Concomitant of clobazam with other CNS-depressant drugs including barbiturates can potentiate the CNS effects (i.e., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. The primary metabolic pathway of clobazam is CYP3A4, and to a lesser extent, CYP2C19 and CYP2B6. Metabolism of N-desmethylclobazam occurs primarily through CYP2C19. Results of a population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that concurrent use of phenobarbital, a CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inducer, did not significantly alter the kinetics of clobazam or its active metabolite N-desmethylclobazam at steady-state. It should be noted that because clobazam is metabolized by multiple enzyme systems, induction of one pathway may not appreciably increase its clearance.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Clomipramine may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. This may increase the risk for an upper GI bleed. (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitoring of clonazepam concentrations or dosage adjustment may be necessary if used concurrently with barbiturates due to decreased clonazepam concentrations. Clonazepam concentration decreases of approximately 38% have been reported when clonazepam is used with strong CYP3A4 inducers. Clonazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may also occur. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if aspirin and clopidogrel are used together as concomitant has an additive effect on platelet function.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of N-desmethyldiazepam, the active metabolite of clorazepate. N-desmethyldiazepam is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
cloZAPine: (Major) Caffeine may inhibit clozapine metabolism via CYP1A2. Clozapine clearance has been decreased by roughly 14 percent during coadministration of caffeine, and a documented increase in clozapine serum concentrations has occurred in selected patients. In addition, a single case report associates the appearance of psychiatric symptoms with caffeine ingestion in one patient taking clozapine. Until more data are available, caffeine consumption should be minimized during clozapine treatment. (Moderate) Patients on certain anticonvulsant therapies should receive clozapine with caution. Clozapine may interact with anticonvulsants in several ways; concurrent use of clozapine in patients on antiepileptic medications is not recommended in seizures that are not well controlled. Clozapine lowers the seizure threshold in a dose-dependent manner and thus may induce seizures; dosage adjustments of clozapine should be cautious. CYP1A2, CYP3A4, and CYP2D6 isoenzymes metabolize clozapine; anticonvulsant drugs known to induce one or more of these isoenzymes include barbiturates. Clinicians should monitor for reduced clozapine effectiveness during concurrent use of anticonvulsants that are weak to moderate CYP inducers. Additive sedation may be noted initially with concurrent clozapine and barbiturate use; enzyme induction by barbiturates takes several days to become clinically apparent.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of cobimetinib with butalbital due to decreased cobimetinib efficacy. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A substrate in vitro, and butalbital is a moderate inducer of CYP3A. Based on simulations, cobimetinib exposure would decrease by 73% when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of codeine with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of codeine with a barbiturate can decrease codeine concentrations, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Colistin: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking more than 150 mg/day of aspirin is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking more than 150 mg/day of aspirin within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
COMT inhibitors: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Crinecerfont: (Major) Increase the crinecerfont morning and evening doses 2-fold if concomitant use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use is expected to decrease crinecerfont exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Crinecerfont is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced crinecerfont overall exposure by 62%.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Phenobarbital may induce cyclosporine metabolism, thereby increasing the clearance of cyclosporine. It is likely that other barbiturates would interact similarly with cyclosporine; however no supportive data are available. If phenobarbital is added to an existing cyclosporine regimen, monitor cyclosporine concentrations closely to avoid loss of clinical efficacy until a new steady-state concentration is achieved. Conversely, if phenobarbital is discontinued, cyclosporine concentrations could increase. (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like cyclosporine may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with cyproheptadine.
Dabigatran: (Major) Educate patients about the signs of increased bleeding and the need to report these signs to a healthcare provider immediately if coadministration of dabigatran and aspirin or another salicylate is necessary. Dabigatran can cause significant and, sometimes, fatal bleeding. This risk may be increased by concurrent use of chronic salicylate therapy.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daraxonrasib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease daraxonrasib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the daraxonrasib dosage to 400 mg once daily. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inducers reduced daraxonrasib overall exposure by 50% to 70%.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daridorexant and butalbital. Coadministration may decrease daridorexant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased daridorexant overall exposure by over 50%.
Darifenacin: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Darunavir: (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with barbiturates is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased darunavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; barbiturates as a class are CYP3A4 inducers. Most reports of clinically significant drug interactions occurring with the barbiturates have involved phenobarbital, a known potent CYP3A4 inducer.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with barbiturates is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased darunavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; barbiturates as a class are CYP3A4 inducers. Most reports of clinically significant drug interactions occurring with the barbiturates have involved phenobarbital, a known potent CYP3A4 inducer.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with barbiturates is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased darunavir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; barbiturates as a class are CYP3A4 inducers. Most reports of clinically significant drug interactions occurring with the barbiturates have involved phenobarbital, a known potent CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including salicylates.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like aspirin is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue antithrombotic agents prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Deflazacort: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of deflazacort and butalbital. Concurrent use may significantly decrease concentrations of 21-desDFZ, the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in loss of efficacy. Deflazacort is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate inducer of CYP3A4. Administration of deflazacort with multiple doses of rifampin (a strong CYP3A4 inducer) resulted in geometric mean exposures that were approximately 95% lower compared to administration alone. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Deuruxolitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of deuruxolitinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease deuruxolitinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Deuruxolitinib is a CYP3A and CYP2C9 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A and moderate CYP2C9 inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and moderate CYP2C9 inducer reduced deuruxolitinib overall exposure by 78%.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dexamethasone if coadministration with barbiturates is necessary; consider increasing the dose of dexamethasone if clinically appropriate. Dexamethasone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as dexchlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are co-used with sedating antihistamines, such as dexchlorpheniramine. Monitor for additive CNS and respiratory effects, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Co-administration of dexmedetomidine with barbiturates is likely to lead to an enhancement of CNS depression.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of the amphetamine salts. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Excessive use of psychostimulants, including caffeine, is associated with an increased seizure risk and may increase this risk during the concurrent use of bupropion. Carefully consider a patient's caffeine intake from all sources, including medicines. Monitor for irritability, tremor, increased blood pressure, insomnia and seizures. Many non-prescription medicines and weight loss aids may contain caffeine and patients should read labels carefully. Examples of foods and beverages containing caffeine include coffee, teas, colas, energy drinks, chocolate, and some herbal or dietary supplements. Patients should be advised to limit excessive caffeine intake during bupropion therapy. (Moderate) Bupropion may interact with drugs that induce hepatic microsomal isoenzyme function via CYP2B6 such as the barbiturates. While not systematically studied, these drugs may induce the metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure. If bupropion is used concomitantly with a CYP inducer, it may be necessary to increase the dose of bupropion, but the maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded. Advise patients that until they are reasonably certain that the combination does not adversely affect their performance, they should refrain from driving an automobile or operating complex, hazardous machinery.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine is eliminated primarily via hepatic metabolism, primarily by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Administration of other hepatic enzyme inducers, such as barbiturates, can accelerate quinidine elimination and decrease its serum concentrations. Phenobarbital may decrease quinidine half-life and corresponding AUC by about 50 to 60%. Quinidine concentrations should be monitored closely after one of these agents is added. No special precautions appear necessary if these agents are begun several weeks before quinidine is added but quinidine doses may require adjustment if one of these agents is added or discontinued during quinidine therapy.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of diazepam. Diazepam is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Diazoxide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of diazoxide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease diazoxide exposure and efficacy. Diazoxide is a CYP3A and CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A and moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Another strong CYP3A and moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce diazoxide overall exposure by 40% to 70%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of diazoxide is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and diazoxide is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Dichlorphenamide: (Major) Dichlorphenamide is contraindicated with the concomitant use of high dose aspirin, ASA and should be used cautiously in patients receiving low dose aspirin. Dichlorphenamide may cause an elevation in salicylate concentrations in patients receiving aspirin. Adverse reactions including anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, and coma have been reported with the concomitant use of dichlorphenamide and high dose aspirin.
Diclofenac: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and diclofenac is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Diclofenac is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering diclofenac with inducers of CYP2C9, such as barbiturates. When used together, the systemic exposure to diclofenac (a CYP2C9 substrate) may decrease, potentially resulting in impaired efficacy. Higher diclofenac doses may be needed. In addition, phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment after diclofenac initiation.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and diclofenac is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Diclofenac is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering diclofenac with inducers of CYP2C9, such as barbiturates. When used together, the systemic exposure to diclofenac (a CYP2C9 substrate) may decrease, potentially resulting in impaired efficacy. Higher diclofenac doses may be needed. In addition, phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment after diclofenac initiation.
Dicloxacillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Diflunisal: (Major) The concurrent use of diflunisal and salicylates is not recommended due to the increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity with little or no increase in anti-inflammatory efficacy.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Hepatic enzyme inducing drugs, such as barbiturates, can accelerate the metabolism of digoxin, decreasing its serum concentrations. It is recommended that digoxin concentrations be monitored if used with barbiturates.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Diltiazem is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of diltiazem with known CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, may significantly decrease the bioavailability of diltiazem. When possible, avoid coadministration of these drugs and consider alternative therapy. When an alternative therapy is not possible, patients should be monitored for the desired cardiovascular effects on heart rate, chest pain, or blood pressure.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with dimenhydrinate.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with barbiturates can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Dipyridamole: (Major) Methylxanthines, through antagonism of adenosine and thus pharmacologic-induced coronary vasodilation, have been associated with false-negative results during dipyridamole-thallium 201 stress testing. It is recommended that methylxanthines (caffeine, caffeinated beverages and foods, theophylline, etc.) be discontinued for at least 24 hours prior to stress testing. An interaction is not expected when methylxanthines are used concomitantly with chronic dipyridamole therapy. (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of aspirin and dipyridamole; both medications interfere with platelet aggregation and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding. For patients undergoing a dipyridamole nuclear stress test and receiving combination aspirin; dipyridamole, hold aspirin; dipyridamole for 48 hours prior to the stress test; concomitant use may increase the risk for cardiovascular side effects and impair the sensitivity of the test.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Hepatic microsomal enzyme-inducing agents, such as barbiturates, have the potential to accelerate the hepatic metabolism of disopyramide, a CYP3A4 substrate. Serum disopyramide concentrations should be monitored closely if hepatic enzyme inducers are either added or discontinued during disopyramide therapy.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering barbiturates with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Barbiturates are inducers of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Donepezil: (Moderate) The elimination of donepezil may be increased by concurrent administration of moderate to strong inducers of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as barbiturates (including primidone). The clinical effect of this interaction on the efficacy of donepezil has not been determined. Observe patients for evidence of reduced donepezil efficacy if these agents are prescribed concurrently.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) The elimination of donepezil may be increased by concurrent administration of moderate to strong inducers of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as barbiturates (including primidone). The clinical effect of this interaction on the efficacy of donepezil has not been determined. Observe patients for evidence of reduced donepezil efficacy if these agents are prescribed concurrently.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Doravirine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and butalbital may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants, like doxapram. CNS stimulants and sympathomimetics are associated with adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias, and the concomitant use of these drugs increases the risk of developing such adverse reactions. Coadminsitration should be avoided or used cautiously.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Although these interactions have not been specifically studied, hepatic enzyme inducers, such as barbiturates, may affect the 25-hydroxylation of doxercalciferol and may necessitate dosage adjustments of doxercalciferol.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4. Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy. Avoid coadministration of barbiturates and doxorubicin if possible. If not possible, monitor doxorubicin closely for efficacy.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4. Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy. Avoid coadministration of barbiturates and doxorubicin if possible. If not possible, monitor doxorubicin closely for efficacy.
Doxycycline: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of doxycycline if coadministered with barbiturates. Barbiturates decrease the half-life of doxycycline, resulting in reduced systemic exposure.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Because doxylamine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with barbiturates is necessary, and monitor for an increase in barbiturate-related adverse reactions and a decrease in the efficacy of dronabinol. Additive dizziness, confusion, somnolence, and other CNS effects may also occur. Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; barbiturates are moderate or strong (phenobarbital) inducers of CYP3A4; additionally phenobarbital is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. Concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of dronabinol. Decreased clearance of barbiturates has also been reported with dronabinol use, possibly by competitive inhibition of metabolism. Published data show an increase in the elimination half-life of pentobarbital by 4 hours when concomitantly dosed with dronabinol.
Dronedarone: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
droPERidol: (Major) Central nervous system depressants, such as barbiturates, have additive or potentiating effects with droperidol. Following administration of droperidol, lower doses of the other CNS depressant should be used.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of duvelisib with butalbital. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of duvelisib, which may reduce the efficacy of duvelisib. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of duvelisib on day 12 of coadministration from 25 mg PO twice daily to 40 mg PO twice daily; or from 15 mg PO twice daily to 25 mg PO twice daily. When butalbital has been discontinued for at least 14 days, resume duvelisib at the dose taken prior to initiating treatment with butalbital. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of duvelisib with another moderate CYP3A inducer for 12 days decreased duvelisib exposure by 35%.
Echinacea: (Moderate) Echinacea may inhibit the metabolism of caffeine. Echinacea reduces the oral clearance of caffeine by 27 percent and increases the mean AUC by 129 percent. Monitor patients for signs of increased caffeine serum concentrations if these drugs are coadministered until more data are available.
Edoxaban: (Major) Monitor for bleeding in patients who require chronic treatment with aspirin. Concomitant use of edoxaban with drugs that affect hemostasis, such as aspirin, may increase the risk of bleeding. The coadministration of aspirin (100 mg or 325 mg) and edoxaban increased bleeding time relative to that seen with either drug alone.
Efavirenz: (Major) Complex interactions may occur when barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital) are administered to patients receiving treatment for HIV infection; if treating seizure disorder, a different anticonvulsant should be used whenever possible. If a barbiturate must be used in a patient being treated for HIV, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy and seizure control; appropriate dose adjustments to the barbiturate or the antiretroviral medications are unknown. The combination regimens used to treat HIV often include substrates, inducers, and inhibitors of several CYP isoenzymes. Efavirenz is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Phenobarbital is an inducer of CYP3A4, and a substrate and inducer of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Use caution if these drugs are to be coadministered, with increased monitoring of both efavirenz and barbiturate concentrations.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Complex interactions may occur when barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital) are administered to patients receiving treatment for HIV infection; if treating seizure disorder, a different anticonvulsant should be used whenever possible. If a barbiturate must be used in a patient being treated for HIV, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy and seizure control; appropriate dose adjustments to the barbiturate or the antiretroviral medications are unknown. The combination regimens used to treat HIV often include substrates, inducers, and inhibitors of several CYP isoenzymes. Efavirenz is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Phenobarbital is an inducer of CYP3A4, and a substrate and inducer of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Use caution if these drugs are to be coadministered, with increased monitoring of both efavirenz and barbiturate concentrations. (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Complex interactions may occur when barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital) are administered to patients receiving treatment for HIV infection; if treating seizure disorder, a different anticonvulsant should be used whenever possible. If a barbiturate must be used in a patient being treated for HIV, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy and seizure control; appropriate dose adjustments to the barbiturate or the antiretroviral medications are unknown. The combination regimens used to treat HIV often include substrates, inducers, and inhibitors of several CYP isoenzymes. Efavirenz is a substrate and inducer of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Phenobarbital is an inducer of CYP3A4, and a substrate and inducer of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Use caution if these drugs are to be coadministered, with increased monitoring of both efavirenz and barbiturate concentrations. (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of elacestrant and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased elacestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elacestrant overall exposure by 86%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of barbiturates with elbasvir; grazoprevir is contraindicated. Barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, while both elbasvir and grazoprevir are substrates of CYP3A. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of both elbasvir and grazoprevir, and may result in decreased virologic response.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is metabolized by CYP1A2. The significance of administering inducers of CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, on the systemic exposure of eltrombopag has not been established. Monitor patients for a decrease in the efficacy of eltrombopag if these drugs are coadministered.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and barbiturates if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and barbiturates if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering barbiturates with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Barbiturates are inducers of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering barbiturates with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Barbiturates are inducers of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of enasidenib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and enasidenib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of encorafenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease encorafenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Entacapone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with butalbital due to decreased entrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Entrectinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to reduce the entrectinib AUC by 56%.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like ephedrine. Adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with ephedrine. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like ephedrine. Adverse effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with ephedrine. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, epoprostenol may increase the risk of bleeding.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Erlotinib: (Moderate) There may be a risk of reduced erlotinib efficacy when coadministered with butalbital; however, the risk has not been clearly defined. If coadministration is necessary, consider increasing the erlotinib dose by 50 mg increments at 2-week intervals as tolerated, to a maximum of 450 mg. Erlotinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 and 1A2 inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of erlotinib.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Inhibitors of the hepatic CYP4501A2, such as erythromycin, may inhibit the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine. No specific management is recommended except in patients who complain of caffeine related side effects. In such patients, the dosage of caffeine containing medications or the ingestion of caffeine containing products may need to be reduced.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Escitalopram is metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates can induce the metabolism of various CYP 450 isoenzymes, including those involved in escitalopram metabolism. Although no clinical data are available to support a clinically significant interaction, escitalopram may need to be administered in higher doses in patients chronically taking barbiturates. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and caffeine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as caffeine, with esketamine may increase blood pressure. (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and barbiturates for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the metabolism of eslicarbazepine resulting in decreased plasma concentrations of and potentially reduced efficacy of eslicarbazepine. An increased dose of eslicarbazepine may be necessary if these drugs are coadministered.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of esomeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of esomeprazole. Esomeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of estazolam. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estrogens (selected): (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Eszopiclone: (Major) Barbiturates are potent inducers of CYP3A4 may increase the rate of eszopiclone metabolism. Additive CNS depression may also occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with eszopiclone. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of eszopiclone and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary. (Minor) Patients taking eszopiclone for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime, as well as excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep. Limit use of caffeine-containing products including medications, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), and beverages (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, or colas).
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression. (Major) Concomitant ingestion of alcohol with salicylates, especially aspirin, ASA, increases the risk of developing gastric irritation and GI mucosal bleeding. Alcohol and salicylates are mucosal irritants and aspirin decreases platelet aggregation. Routine ingestion of alcohol and aspirin can cause significant GI bleeding, which may or may not be overt. Even occasional concomitant use of salicylates and alcohol should be avoided. Chronic ingestion of alcohol is often associated with hypoprothrombinemia and this condition increases the risk of salicylate-induced bleeding. Patients should be warned regarding the potential for increased risk of GI bleeding if alcohol-containing beverages are taken concurrently with salicylates.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and increase the hepatic metabolism of ethosuximide, leading to a decrease in ethosuximide plasma concentrations and half-life. To maintain a therapeutic dosage, serum concentrations of ethosuximide should be measured, especially if barbiturate therapy is added to or withdrawn from ethosuximide therapy.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Etodolac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Etonogestrel: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with butalbital is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be increased. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with CYP3A4 inducers may increase the metabolism of everolimus and decrease everolimus blood concentrations.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Barbiturates are significant hepatic CYP3A4 inducers. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when barbiturates are co-administered with simvastatin, which is metabolized by CYP3A4.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fedratinib with barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease fedratinib exposure which may result in decreased therapeutic response. Fedratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration of fedratinib with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the overall exposure of fedratinib by 81%.
Felodipine: (Major) Barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital, primidone) may significantly reduce systemic exposure of felodipine; consider alternative therapy. If coadministration is necessary, monitor the patient closely for desired cardiovascular effects on heart rate, blood pressure, or chest pain. Felodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate, and these anticonvulsants are potent CYP3A4 inducers. In a pharmacokinetic study, felodipine's Cmax was considerably lower in epileptic patients on long-term anticonvulsant therapy than in healthy volunteers. In these patients, the mean AUC was reduced approximately 6% of that observed in healthy adults.
Fenfluramine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fenfluramine and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased fenfluramine plasma concentrations, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased efficacy and consider increasing fenfluramine dose as needed. If barbiturates are discontinued during fenfluramine maintenance treatment, consider gradual reduction in the fenfluramine dosage to the dose administered prior to barbiturate initiation. Fenfluramine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Fenoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity. (Minor) Phenobarbital and possibly other barbiturates can decrease the plasma concentrations and half-life of fenoprofen. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established, but dosage adjustments of fenoprofen may be necessary with concurrent administration of phenobarbital or following initiation or withdrawal of the drug.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of fentanyl with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of fentanyl with a barbiturate may decrease fentanyl plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Fesoterodine: (Minor) Beverages containing caffeine or ethanol may aggravate bladder symptoms and counteract the effectiveness of fesoterodine to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas) and alcoholic beverages.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and barbiturates. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of fexinidazole is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Finerenone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of finerenone and butalbital due to the risk for decreased finerenone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased overall exposure to finerenone by 80%.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with aspirin. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Flibanserin: (Major) The concomitant use of flibanserin with CYP3A4 inducers significantly decreases flibanserin exposure compared to the use of flibanserin alone. Therefore, concurrent use of flibanserin and phenobarbital or other barbiturates, which are strong CYP3A4 inducers, is not recommended.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Fluconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 25 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined. (Minor) Barbiturates induce hepatic CYP enzymes including 3A4, 2C19 and 2C9 and may reduce effective serum concentrations of fluconazole. Be alert for lack of efficacy of fluconazole in concurrent use.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Flurazepam: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to fluticasone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to fluticasone during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to fluticasone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to fluticasone during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to fluticasone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to fluticasone during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to fluticasone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to fluticasone during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Strong inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine, may inhibit the metabolism of caffeine. No specific management is recommended except in patients with caffeine-related side effects after initiating fluvoxamine. In such patients, the dosage of caffeine containing medications or the ingestion of caffeine containing products may need to be reduced. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with fondaparinux. Data on the concomitant use of fondaparinux with aspirin are lacking; however, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use during barbiturate treatment due to the risk for additive CNS depression and other adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also decrease the concentration of some cannabinoids and alter their effects. The cannabinoids delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of a cannabinoid product containing THC and CBD at an approximate 1:1 ratio with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased THC, 11-OH-THC, and CBD peak exposures by 36%, 87%, and 52% respectively.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased fosamprenavir efficacy if coadministered with barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of fosamprenavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the fosamprenavir overall exposure by 82%.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Foscarnet: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as foscarnet, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Barbiturates can stimulate the hydroxylating enzyme that metabolizes phenytoin or, conversely, may inhibit phenytoin (or fosphenytoin) metabolism. In general, therapeutic doses of phenobarbital induce the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin, producing lower phenytoin serum concentrations. Large doses of phenobarbital, however, tend to increase phenytoin serum concentrations due to competition for hepatic pathways. Thus, phenytoin serum concentrations can increase, decrease, or not change during concomitant therapy with barbiturates. Conversely, phenytoin can increase serum concentrations of the barbiturate, however this has not been as well studied. Similar interactions may occur with ethotoin, although specific data are lacking. (Moderate) Higher caffeine doses may be needed after hydantoin administration; hydantoins increase caffeine elimination. (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Fosphenytoin is converted to phenytoin in vivo, so this interaction may also occur with fosphenytoin.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Fruquintinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fruquintinib with barbiturates due to decreased fruquintinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Fruquintinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inducer decreased fruquintinib exposure by 65%.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Futibatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of futibatinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease futibatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Futibatinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced futibatinib overall exposure by 64%.
Gabapentin: (Major) Concomitant use of barbiturates with gabapentin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
Ganaxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ganaxolone and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased ganaxolone efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing ganaxolone dose without exceeding the maximum daily dose. Ganaxolone is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ganaxolone overall exposure by 68%.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Garlic, Allium sativum may produce clinically-significant antiplatelet effects; until more data are available, garlic should be used cautiously in patients receiving drugs with a potential risk for bleeding such as aspirin, ASA.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Gentamicin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Gepirone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepotidacin and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease gepotidacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepotidacin overall exposure by 52%.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) There may be an increased risk of bleeding in patients on aspirin therapy who take ginger as a supplement (i.e., usual dietary intake is not expected to pose a risk). Several pungent constituents of ginger, Zingiber officinale are reported to inhibit arachidonic acid induced platelet activation in human whole blood. Ginger-associated platelet inhibition may be related to a decrease in COX-1/Thromboxane synthase enzymatic activity. The increased risk of bleeding is theoretical; clinical data of an interaction are not available.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and aspirin as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Givosiran: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of givosiran and caffeine due to the risk of increased caffeine-related adverse reactions. If use is necessary, consider decreasing the caffeine dose. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. Givosiran may moderately reduce hepatic CYP1A2 enzyme activity because of its pharmacological effects on the hepatic heme biosynthesis pathway.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and butalbital due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after butalbital has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Minor) Barbiturates may induce the CYP2C9 metabolism of glimepiride. Blood glucose concentrations should be monitored and possible dose adjustments of glimepiride may need to be made.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea should be used cautiously in patients taking aspirin; there may be an increased risk of bleeding. Monitoring clinical and/or laboratory parameters is warranted. Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals.
Griseofulvin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of griseofulvin with salicylates may result in decreased salicylate serum concentrations. Caution and close monitoring for changes in the effectiveness of the salicylate are recommended. (Minor) Barbiturates can impair the oral absorption of griseofulvin, resulting in decreased serum concentrations and, potentially, decreased antifungal efficacy. The clinical significance of this interaction is uncertain, but the manufacturer recommends that these drugs not be co-administered.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
guanFACINE: (Major) Monitor patients for guanfacine efficacy and for excess sedation during butalbital coadministration. Guanfacine plasma concentrations can be reduced by butalbital, by induction of CYP3A4 metabolism. Immediate-release guanfacine may require more frequent dosing to achieve or maintain desired hypotensive response; if it is discontinued, carefully taper the dose to prevent rebound hypertension. The extended-release guanfacine dose for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) may need to be doubled, per FDA-approved labeling; any dose change should occur over 1 to 2 weeks (e.g., dose increase when adding, or decrease when discontinuing, an enzyme inducer). Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. Barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital, primidone) are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Guanfacine plasma concentrations and elimination half-life were significantly reduced with coadministration of an enzyme inducer (e.g., phenobarbital, primidone, phenytoin, fosphenytoin) in two patients with renal impairment. Additionally, guanfacine has been associated with sedative effects and can potentiate the actions of CNS depressants, including barbiturates.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Caution should be exercised with simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Hemin: (Major) Hemin works by inhibiting the enzyme (delta)-aminolevulinic acid synthetase. Drugs which increase the activity of this enzyme, such as barbiturates should not be used with hemin.
Heparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin). Despite the potential drug-drug interaction between aspirin and heparin, heparin is frequently administered in combination with low-dose aspirin therapy to patients who have had an acute myocardial infarction and in other disease states. In addition, large doses of salicylates (at least 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Barbiturates can stimulate the hydroxylating enzyme that metabolizes phenytoin or, conversely, may inhibit phenytoin (or fosphenytoin) metabolism. In general, therapeutic doses of phenobarbital induce the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin, producing lower phenytoin serum concentrations. Large doses of phenobarbital, however, tend to increase phenytoin serum concentrations due to competition for hepatic pathways. Thus, phenytoin serum concentrations can increase, decrease, or not change during concomitant therapy with barbiturates. Conversely, phenytoin can increase serum concentrations of the barbiturate, however this has not been as well studied. Similar interactions may occur with ethotoin, although specific data are lacking. (Moderate) Higher caffeine doses may be needed after hydantoin administration; hydantoins increase caffeine elimination.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of hydrocodone with a barbiturate can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased corticosteroid efficacy if hydrocortisone is used with barbiturates; a hydrocortisone dosage increase may be necessary. Concurrent use may decrease hydrocortisone exposure. Hydrocortisone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydromorphone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Because hydroxyzine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including barbiturates.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Ibandronate: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of intravenous or oral ibandronate use, respectively, and aspirin. Acute renal failure has been observed with intravenous ibandronate and concomitant use of other nephrotoxic agents may increase this risk. Additionally, the oral formulations of both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Ibrexafungerp: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of ibrexafungerp with barbiturates. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease ibrexafungerp exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Ibrexafungerp is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with platelet function such as aspirin; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with asprin is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia. (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ibrutinib and antiplatelet agents such as aspirin may increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients for signs of bleeding. Severe bleeding events have occurred with ibrutinib therapy including intracranial hemorrhage, GI bleeding, hematuria, and post procedural hemorrhage; some events were fatal. The mechanism for bleeding with ibrutinib therapy is not well understood. Also, aspirin may mask signs of infection such as fever and in patients following treatment with antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for increased ifosfamide-related toxicities (e.g., neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity) if coadministration with butalbital is necessary; consider adjusting the dose of ifosfamide as clinically appropriate. Ifosfamide is metabolized to its active alkylating metabolites by CYP3A4; butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may increase the formation of the neurotoxic/nephrotoxic ifosfamide metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. In theory, the use of barbiturates and iloperidone may also result in an increase in iloperidone elimination as a result of the CYP inducing effects of barbiturates.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of imatinib and barbiturates if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of imatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of imatinib by at least 50%, carefully monitoring clinical response; imatinib doses up to 1,200 mg per day (600 mg twice daily) have been given to patients receiving concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers. Imatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer increased imatinib clearance by 3.8-fold, which significantly decreased the mean Cmax and AUC of imatinib.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Indomethacin: (Major) The concurrent use of salicylates and indomethacin is not recommended. Combined use does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than indomethacin monotherapy. Also, a significantly greater incidence of gastrointestinal adverse effects with concurrent use has been observed. Because NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, and prolong bleeding time, additive effects may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin), anticoagulants, or thrombolytic agents.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and salicylates due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity as well as the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of salicylates in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with aspirin. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Iodixanol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iohexol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Iopromide: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ioversol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Iron Sucrose, Sucroferric Oxyhydroxide: (Moderate) Administer aspirin at least 1 hour before oral iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide. Oral iron salts may reduce the bioavailability of aspirin, leading to decreased absorption.
Isocarboxazid: (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive. (Major) The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. This may enhance drowsiness or dizziness. Barbiturates should generally be given at a reduced dose with an MAOI.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Isradipine: (Major) Because isradipine is a substrate of CYP3A4, the concomitant use of drugs that strongly induce CYP3A4, such as barbiturates, may cause a reduction in the bioavailability and thus decreased therapeutic effect of isradipine. Consider alternative therapy; if co-use is necessary, patients should be monitored for potential loss of therapeutic effect when hepatic enzyme inducers are added to isradipine therapy.
Itraconazole: (Major) Use of barbiturates is not recommended for 2 weeks before or during itraconazole therapy. Barbiturates induce hepatic CYP enzymes including 3A4, 2C19 and 2C9 and may reduce effective serum concentrations of itraconazole. Monitor for breakthrough fungal infections.
Ivabradine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivabradine and barbiturates including primidone. Ivabradine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration may decrease the plasma concentrations of ivabradine resulting in the potential for treatment failure.
Ixabepilone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
Ketoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity. (Minor) Caffeine administered concurrently with ketoprofen reduced the urine volume in 4 healthy volunteers. The clinical significance of the interaction in preterm neonates is not known.
Ketorolac: (Contraindicated) Ketorolac is contraindicated in patients currently receiving salicylates due to increased risk of serious NSAID-related adverse events, including gastrointestinal bleeding, ulceration, and perforation.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of lansoprazole if concomitant use of lansoprazole and barbiturates is necessary. Lansoprazole is metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. Drugs known to induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 may lead to decreased lansoprazole plasma concentrations.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of lansoprazole if concomitant use of lansoprazole and barbiturates is necessary. Lansoprazole is metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. Drugs known to induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 may lead to decreased lansoprazole plasma concentrations. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lazertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with butalbital unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may decrease lefamulin exposure and efficacy. Lefamulin is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and butalbital as concurrent use may decrease lemborexant exposure which may reduce efficacy. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for reduced lenacapavir exposure, which may lead to loss of therapeutic efficacy and development of resistance. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with barbiturates is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day barbiturates are initiated, which should be at least 2 days after lenacapavir initiation, a supplemental dose of 927 mg subcutaneously and 600 mg orally should be given (Step 1). The following day, an additional oral dose of 600 mg should be administered (Step 2). If the barbiturate is continued for longer than 6 months, this 2-step supplemental dosing regimen must be repeated every 6 months. After discontinuation of barbiturates, the standard 6-month injection schedule for lenacapavir should be resumed. Recommendations are not available for those already on barbiturates at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 84%.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of leniolisib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease leniolisib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Leniolisib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced leniolisib overall exposure by 78%.
Leucovorin: (Minor) Limited data suggest that leucovorin and levoleucovorin may interfere with the activity of anticonvulsants such as barbiturates. Folic acid can decrease serum concentrations of anticonvulsants in children. Leucovorin shares metabolic pathways with folic acid. Clinicians should consider careful monitoring of patients.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Levamlodipine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid barbiturates for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit the clearance of caffeine by 11 percent. The clinical significance of these interactions has not been determined.
LEVOleucovorin: (Minor) Limited data suggest that leucovorin and levoleucovorin may interfere with the activity of anticonvulsants such as barbiturates. Folic acid can decrease serum concentrations of anticonvulsants in children. Leucovorin shares metabolic pathways with folic acid. Clinicians should consider careful monitoring of patients.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of levorphanol with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial dose of levorphanol by approximately 50% or more. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Levothyroxine: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and barbiturates if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and barbiturates if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Caffeine use should be minimized or avoided during and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of linezolid. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Dangerous cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension can occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs.
Liothyronine: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of lisdexamfetamine. Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Lithium: (Major) Caffeine appears to reduce serum lithium concentrations. Adverse reactions to lithium have also been noted to increase simultaneously with a reduction in caffeine intake. Patients taking lithium should be counseled regarding their intake of caffeine. (Moderate) Because lithium has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills, caution is advisable during concurrent use of other medications with centrally-acting effects including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and barbiturates. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or performing any other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the combination are known. The use of barbiturates parenterally may cause vasodilation and an additive risk for hypotension and may lead to bradycardia and syncope; in these patients, careful monitoring of blood pressure should occur.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and butalbital is contraindicated; concurrent use may decrease lonafarnib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lopinavir; ritonavir and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, do not use once daily dosing of lopinavir; ritonavir. Concomitant use may decrease lopinavir plasma concentrations, resulting in reduced efficacy. Lopinavir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease the exposure of both drugs, resulting in reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased virologic response and decreased efficacy of the barbiturate. A dose increase of the barbiturate may be necessary. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and inducer and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur with concurrent use. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and butalbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Barbiturates are significant hepatic CYP3A4 inducers. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when barbiturates are co-administered with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolized by CYP3A4 including lovastatin.
Low Molecular Weight Heparins: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Loxapine can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates. Caution should be exercised with simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and butalbital as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of lumateperone with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased lumateperone overall exposure by greater than 30-fold.
Lurasidone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of lurasidone with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, is contraindicated. Lurasidone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. Decreased blood concentrations of lurasidone are expected when the drug is co-administered with strong inducers of CYP3A4.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lurbinectedin and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased lurbinectedin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Mafenide: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Mannitol: (Major) In general, avoid use of mannitol and salicylates. Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs, such as the salicylates, increases the risk of renal failure after administration of mannitol. However, mannitol promotes the urinary excretion of salicylates, and may be used as an adjunct in salicylate intoxication. (Minor) Mannitol promotes the urinary excretion of barbiturates, and it may be used as an adjunct in patients with barbiturate toxicity.
Mavacamten: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Mebendazole: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of mebendazole if given concomitantly. This effect can cause decreased levels of plasma mebendazole but is probably important only in the treatment of extraintestinal infections, such as hydatid cyst disease, and not in the treatment of intestinal helminths.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with meclizine.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Increased adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects are possible if mefenamic acid is used with salicylates. In addition, concomitant administration of salicylates and mefenamic acid may result in an increase in unbound plasma concentrations of either drug, which could result in greater adverse effects. In general, concomitant use of aspirin and mefenamic acid is not recommended.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) The barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and may increase the metabolism of mefloquine if coadministered. Concomitant administration can reduce the clinical efficacy of mefloquine, increasing the risk of Plasmodium falciparum resistance during treatment of malaria. Coadministration of mefloquine and barbiturates that are used as anticonvulsants may also result in lower than expected anticonvulsant concentrations and loss of seizure control. Monitoring of the anticonvulsant serum concentration, if the drug is monitored via therapeutic drug monitoring, is recommended. Mefloquine may cause CNS side effects that may cause seizures or alter moods or behaviors.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Melatonin: (Major) Use caution when combining melatonin with other traditional sedatives and hypnotics, including the sedative barbiturates. Use of more than one agent for hypnotic purposes may increase the risk for over-sedation, CNS effects, or sleep-related behaviors. If a barbiturate is taken for seizure control, watch for changes in anticonvulsant activity. Be alert for unusual changes in moods or behaviors. Patients reporting unusual sleep-related behaviors likely should discontinue melatonin use. Additionally, melatonin exposure and efficacy may be reduced when combined with barbiturates such as phenobarbital, as barbiturates induce many CYP450 isoenzymes, including CYP1A2, the primary metabolic pathway for melatonin. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking melatonin for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime, as well as excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Meloxicam: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of meperidine with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of meperidine with a barbiturate may decrease meperidine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; meperidine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Meprobamate: (Major) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like meprobamate. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Metaproterenol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of methadone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of methadone with a barbiturate may decrease methadone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates are inducers of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, isoenzymes partially responsible for the metabolism of methadone.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
methazolAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, like methazolamide, whenever possible. The combination yielded reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death. The mechanism appears to be accumulation of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, resulting in increased CNS depression and metabolic acidosis. The acidosis may allow greater CNS penetration of the salicylate. (Minor) Methazolamide can induce osteomalacia in patients treated chronically with barbiturates. Potential mechanisms for this interaction include a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor induced increase in the urinary excretion of calcium and an increase in barbiturate effects resulting from metabolic acidosis. Methazolamide can also increase the rate of excretion of weakly acidic drugs, such as barbiturates.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Methotrexate: (Major) Do not administer salicylates before or concomitantly with high doses of methotrexate, such as used in the treatment of osteosarcoma. Concomitant administration of some NSAIDs with high dose methotrexate therapy has been reported to elevate and prolong serum methotrexate concentrations, resulting in deaths from severe hematologic and gastrointestinal toxicity. Use caution when salicylates are administered concomitantly with lower doses of methotrexate. Salicylates have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model and may enhance its toxicity. Methotrexate is partially bound to serum albumin, and toxicity may be increased because of displacement by salicylates.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Methsuximide: (Moderate) Barbiturates induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the hepatic metabolism of succinimides. This may lead to a decrease in succinimide plasma concentration and a reduction in half-life.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to methylprednisolone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; methylprednisolone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to methylprednisolone during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation. (Minor) Metoclopramide can increase the rate or extent of absorption of aspirin because of accelerated gastric emptying, which increases the contact time with the small bowel where this drug is absorbed.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as barbiturates, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with barbiturates can result in additive sedative effects.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Mexiletine is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 isoenzymes, and may reduce CYP1A2-mediated caffeine metabolism. Mexiletine has been shown to increase caffeine concentrations by as much as 23 percent after a single 200 mg dose of mexiletine (nonsignificant increase, p<0.1). Another study has reported that the elimination of caffeine is decreased by 50 percent. While the clinical significance of this interaction is not known, elevated plasma caffeine levels may be of concern in patients with arrhythmias. Patients with cardiac arrhythmias on mexiletine should be cautioned to limit their intake of caffeine. (Moderate) While other hepatic enzyme inducers have been shown to accelerate the metabolism of mexiletine, no data are available regarding the effects of barbiturates on mexiletine. An interaction between barbiturates and mexiletine, however, may be possible.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of midazolam. Midazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
migALAstat: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral caffeine and migalastat by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease migalastat exposure and efficacy. Coadministration of 190 mg caffeine reduced the mean migalastat AUC by 55%.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants such as barbiturates. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of mirtazapine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with barbiturates due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Modafinil: (Major) It is not clear how modafinil interacts with barbiturates like phenobarbital. Modafinil is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 and combined use with CYP3A4 inducers such as phenobarbital and other barbiturates may result in decreased modafinil efficacy. Barbiturates used for sleep could counteract the effect of modafinil on wakefulness, and would not ordinarily be prescribed. The potential effects of combining modafinil with anticonvulsant barbiturate medications are unclear. Many psychostimulants can reduce the seizure threshold, but it is not clear if modafinil can affect seizure control. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Caffeine should be used cautiously with modafinil. Excessive intake should be limited. Excessive intake may cause nervousness, irritability, insomnia or other side effects.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive. (Major) The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. This may enhance drowsiness or dizziness. Barbiturates should generally be given at a reduced dose with an MAOI.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of morphine with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. For extended-release morphine tablets (MS Contin and Morphabond), start with 15 mg every 12 hours. Morphine; naltrexone should be initiated at 1/3 to 1/2 the recommended starting dosage. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Mycophenolic acid is more than 98% bound to albumin. Concurrent use of mycophenolate with salicylates can decrease the protein binding of mycophenolic acid resulting in an increase in the free fraction of MPA. Patients should be observed for increased clinical effects from mycophenolate as well as additive adverse effects.
Nabumetone: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Nafcillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with nalbuphine. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of nalbuphine and any barbiturate. Dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with butalbital is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and barbiturates as use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A and P-gp inducers.
Naproxen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of esomeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of esomeprazole. Esomeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Coadministration with phenobarbital and, potentially, other barbiturates may increase the metabolism of nelfinavir and lead to decreased nelfinavir concentrations resulting in reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and development of viral resistance. If nelfinavir and barbiturates are used together, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy.
Nerandomilast: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nerandomilast and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease nerandomilast exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nerandomilast is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased nerandomilast overall exposure by 51%.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of butalbital with neratinib due to decreased efficacy of neratinib. Neratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Simulations using physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models suggest that another moderate CYP3A4 inducer may decrease neratinib exposure by 52%.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for decreased efficacy of nevirapine if coadministered with barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of nevirapine leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Concomitant use may also decrease the barbiturate concentration. Monitor concentrations closely during coadministration of nevirapine; dose adjustments may be needed. Nevirapine is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased nevirapine exposure by greater than 50%.
NiCARdipine: (Major) Patients should be monitored for loss of antihypertensive effect if CYP3A4 enzyme inducers like the barbiturates are added to nicardipine therapy. Rifampin is a potent hepatic enzyme inducer and has been shown to exert a substantial reduction of the oral bioavailability of some calcium channel blockers. This interaction should be considered with other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors including the barbiturates.
NIFEdipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nifedipine with barbiturates and consider alternative therapy if possible. If coadministration is necessary, monitor the patient closely for desired cardiovascular effects on heart rate, blood pressure, or chest pain. The FDA-approved labeling for some nifedipine products contraindicates coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers, while other manufacturers classify the recommendation as a warning. Nifedipine is a CYP3A4 substrate, and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration of nifedipine with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced the AUC and Cmax of nifedipine by approximately 70%.
niMODipine: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Nintedanib: (Major) Avoid the use of barbiturates with nintedanib, as these drugs are expected to decrease the exposure of nintedanib and compromise its efficacy. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers and some barbiturates, such as phenobarbital, also induce P-glycoprotein (P-gp). In drug interaction studies, administration of a dual P-gp and CYP3A4 inducer with nintedanib decreased the AUC of nintedanib by 50%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir is contraindicated for use within 2 weeks of administering barbiturates; consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may decrease nirmatrelvir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. The risk for reduced efficacy may persist following barbiturate discontinuation. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease the exposure of both drugs, resulting in reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased virologic response and decreased efficacy of the barbiturate. A dose increase of the barbiturate may be necessary. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and inducer and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease nirogacestat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce nirogacestat overall exposure by 85%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Coadministration of nisoldipine with CYP3A4 inducers like the barbiturates should be avoided and alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer with nisoldipine in epileptic patients lowered the nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels. Barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital, primidone) may also decrease the oral bioavailability of nisoldipine via increased hepatic drug clearance.
Nitazoxanide: (Moderate) The active metabolite of nitazoxanide, tizoxanide, is highly bound to plasma proteins. Caution should be exercised when administering nitazoxanide concurrently with other highly plasma protein-bound drugs with narrow therapeutic indices because competition for binding sites may occur.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) When coadministered with aspirin, ASA (doses between 500 mg and 1000 mg), the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and exposure (AUC) of a single nitroglycerin dose is increased by 67% and 73%, respectively. Additionally, limited data suggest that patients receiving aspirin, ASA in high doses can exhibit an exaggerated response to sublingual nitroglycerin. Although hypotension and tachycardia were more significant during concomitant therapy, no special precautions appear necessary. The pharmacologic effects of 0.4% nitroglycerin rectal ointment may also be enhanced when administered concomitantly with aspirin, ASA; therefore, close clinical monitoring is advised.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Caffeine and caffeine containing products should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Norethindrone: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Norgestrel: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Obeticholic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of obeticholic acid is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 42%; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and obeticholic acid is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine is metabolized by the CYP1A2 hepatic microsomal isoenzyme, and inducers of this enzyme such as barbiturates, may increase olanzapine clearance. The clinical effect of this interaction is thought to be minimal; however, the clinician should be alert for reduced olanzapine effect if the drugs are coadministered. Additive effects are possible when olanzapine is combined with other drugs which cause respiratory depression and/or CNS depression. Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine is metabolized by the CYP1A2 hepatic microsomal isoenzyme, and inducers of this enzyme such as barbiturates, may increase olanzapine clearance. The clinical effect of this interaction is thought to be minimal; however, the clinician should be alert for reduced olanzapine effect if the drugs are coadministered. Additive effects are possible when olanzapine is combined with other drugs which cause respiratory depression and/or CNS depression. Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of samidorphan and barbiturates; decreased samidorphan exposure and loss of efficacy may occur. Samidorphan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer reduced samidorphan exposure by 73%. (Moderate) Olanzapine is metabolized by the CYP1A2 hepatic microsomal isoenzyme, and inducers of this enzyme such as barbiturates, may increase olanzapine clearance. The clinical effect of this interaction is thought to be minimal; however, the clinician should be alert for reduced olanzapine effect if the drugs are coadministered. Additive effects are possible when olanzapine is combined with other drugs which cause respiratory depression and/or CNS depression. Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with butalbital due to the risk of decreasing the efficacy of olaparib. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer; concomitant use may decrease olaparib exposure. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the olaparib Cmax by 31% and the AUC by 60%.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with butalbital may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with butalbital to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Olodaterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Olutasidenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of olutasidenib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased olutasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Olutasidenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced olutasidenib exposure by approximately 80%.
Omacetaxine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of omacetaxine and aspirin, ASA when the platelet count is less than 50,000 cells/microliter due to an increased risk of bleeding. Also, aspirin may mask signs of infection such as fever and pain in patients following treatment with antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives. Aspirin, ASA should be used with caution in patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy. Special consideration should be given to myelosuppressed patients prior to receiving aspirin.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of omeprazole with barbiturates because it can result in decreased efficacy of omeprazole. Omeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
Ondansetron: (Minor) Ondansetron elimination may be affected by cytochrome P-450 inducers. In a pharmacokinetic study of 16 patients with epilepsy who were maintained chronically on CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., barbiturates) a reduction in ondansetron AUC, Cmax, and half-life was observed, resulting in a significant increase in ondansetron clearance. However, these changes in ondansetron exposure are not thought to be clinically relevant; no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended when CYP450 inducers are used concurrently.
Opicapone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Orforglipron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of orforglipron and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease orforglipron exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Orforglipron is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced orforglipron overall exposure by 82%. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Oveporexton: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oveporexton and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease oveporexton exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced oveporexton overall exposure by 81%.
Oxacillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Oxaprozin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur with concurrent use. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur when oxybutynin is used concomitantly with other CNS-depressant drugs, including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. In addition, because oxybutynin is metabolized by CYP3A4, administration with drugs that induce CYP3A4 (such as barbiturates) may reduce the serum concentration and effects of oxybutynin. Patients receiving these drugs concomitantly should be monitored for reduced efficacy. (Minor) Consuming greater than 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urine output, and counteract the effectiveness of drugs used to treat overactive bladder such as oxybutynin. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of oxycodone with a barbiturate may decrease oxycodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of oxymorphone with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxymorphone dosage by 1/3 to 1/2. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
PACLitaxel: (Minor) Paclitaxel is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 2C8 and 3A4. Potential interactions may occur in vivo with any agent that induces CYP2C8 or CYP3A4 isoenzymes including barbiturates.
Pacritinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with barbiturates is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of pacritinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration increased caffeine exposure by 22%.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid using a strong inducer of CYP3A4 if possible during the 1-month injectable dosing interval of Invega Sustenna or the 3-month injectable dosing interval of Invega Trinza. If use of a strong CYP3A4 inducer such as a barbiturate is required in patients receiving injectable paliperidone, consider management with oral paliperidone. Paliperidone is a P-gp substrate, with minor contributions in metabolism by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. A dosage increase of oral paliperidone may be required during coadministration of a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp. However, concurrent use of oral paliperidone with a strong CYP3A4 inducer alone may not be clinically relevant since this isoenzyme contributes to only a small fraction of total body clearance of the drug. It should be noted that clinically significant barbiturate enzyme-induction occurs after several days and may not be clinically significant with short-term use of barbiturates.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease palovarotene exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced palovarotene overall exposure by 11%.
Paltusotine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in paltusotine efficacy during concomitant use of paltusotine and barbiturates; increase the paltusotine dosage as appropriate based on response. When increasing the paltusotine dosage, do not exceed 3x the prior dose or 120 mg daily, whichever is less. Concomitant use may decrease paltusotine exposure. Paltusotine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced paltusotine overall exposure by 70%.
Pamidronate: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant pamidronate and aspirin use due to risk for additive nephrotoxicity.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of papaverine with potent CNS depressants such as barbiturates could lead to enhanced sedation.
Paromomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may induce various hepatic CYP450 isoenzymes, including those responsible for the metabolism of paroxetine. Clinicians should be aware of the potential for reduced SSRI efficacy with concurrent administration of a barbiturate, especially in chronic use. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) The effects of peginterferon alfa-2b on CYP1A2 were evaluated in drug interaction studies. Administration of peginterferon alfa-2b with caffeine, a CYP1A2 substrate, resulted in an 18% to 39% increase in the geographic mean exposure for caffeine, suggesting inhibition of CYP1A2. Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to caffeine if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered with caffeine.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased pemigatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease pemigatinib exposure by more than 50%.
Penicillin G Benzathine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin V: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillins: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pentazocine with other CNS depressants can potentiate respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation. Pentazocine should be used cautiously in any patient receiving these agents, which may include barbiturates.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of platelet inhibitor with pentoxifylline in the treatment of intermittent claudication has not been evaluated and should be approached with caution, due to the potential for synergistic effects.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as barbiturates.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities. (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Phenelzine: (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive. (Major) The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. This may enhance drowsiness or dizziness. Barbiturates should generally be given at a reduced dose with an MAOI.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration. (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Barbiturates can stimulate the hydroxylating enzyme that metabolizes phenytoin or, conversely, may inhibit phenytoin (or fosphenytoin) metabolism. In general, therapeutic doses of phenobarbital induce the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin, producing lower phenytoin serum concentrations. Large doses of phenobarbital, however, tend to increase phenytoin serum concentrations due to competition for hepatic pathways. Thus, phenytoin serum concentrations can increase, decrease, or not change during concomitant therapy with barbiturates. Conversely, phenytoin can increase serum concentrations of the barbiturate, however this has not been as well studied. Similar interactions may occur with ethotoin, although specific data are lacking. (Moderate) Higher caffeine doses may be needed after hydantoin administration; hydantoins increase caffeine elimination. (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Displacement of phenytoin from binding sites can lead to a decrease in the total phenytoin serum concentration. Close monitoring for excessive phenytoin toxicity or decreased phenytoin efficacy is recommended.
Phosphorated Carbohydrate Solution: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Phosphorus: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Minor) Barbiturates may induce the CYP2C9 metabolism of glimepiride. Blood glucose concentrations should be monitored and possible dose adjustments of glimepiride may need to be made.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Piroxicam: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of pirtobrutinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased pirtobrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pirtobrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pirtobrutinib overall exposure by 71%.
Pitolisant: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Pivmecillinam: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Plazomicin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pomalidomide: (Moderate) Use pomalidomide and barbiturates together with caution; decreased pomalidomide exposure may occur resulting in reduced pomalidomide effectiveness. Pomalidomide is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are CYP1A2 inducers.
Potassium Phosphate: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Pralidoxime: (Major) The action of barbiturates is potentiated by the acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, which should be considered when using pralidoxime. Barbiturates should be used with caution to treat convulsions produced by acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.
Pramipexole: (Major) The use of barbiturates in combination with pramipexole may increase the risk of clinically significant sedation via a pharmacodynamic interaction.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Salicylates can indirectly increase insulin secretion, and thus decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates may cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both prasugrel and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Aspirin 150 mg did not alter prasugrel-mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation; however, bleeding time was increased compared to either drug alone. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Praziquantel: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of praziquantel and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk of decreased praziquantel exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Praziquantel is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. In a crossover study with a 2-week washout period, administration of praziquantel followed by another strong CYP3A inducer resulted in undetectable plasma concentrations of praziquantel in 7 out of 10 subjects. When praziquantel was administered 2 weeks after discontinuation of the strong inducer, the mean praziquantel AUC was 23% lower than when praziquantel was given alone.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to prednisolone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; prednisolone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to prednisolone during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to prednisone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; prednisone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to prednisone during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Pregabalin: (Major) Concomitant use of barbiturates with pregabalin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of primaquine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and primaquine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Primidone: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Procarbazine: (Major) Ingestion of certain products should be minimized while receiving procarbazine therapy, as the drug has some MAO inhibiting actions. Caffeine may produce hypertension or hypertensive crisis or induce cardiac arrhythmias if administered to patients taking drugs with strong MAOI properties. All preparations containing caffeine should be used sparingly such as teas, coffee, chocolate, cola, guarana, or 'stay awake' products. Some non-prescription medicines also contain caffeine and should not be taken without health care professional advice. Following discontinuation of procarbazine, dietary restrictions should continue for at least 2 weeks due to the slow recovery from the enzyme-inhibiting effects. (Moderate) Use procarbazine and barbiturates together with caution; additive CNS depression may occur.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Progesterone: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Progestins: (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants like phenylephrine; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Propofol: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with triprolidine. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Psyllium: (Moderate) Psyllium can interfere with the absorption of certain oral drugs if administered concomitantly. For example, psyllium fiber can adsorb salicylates. Per the psyllium manufacturers, administration of other prescribed oral drugs should be separated from the administration of psyllium by at least 2 hours.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of quazepam. Quazepam is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Coadministration of barbiturates, potent CYP3A4 inducers, with quetiapine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may result in decreased exposure to quetiapine. The dose of quetiapine should be increased by up to 5-fold when combined with chronic administration (7 to 14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer. Adjust the dose based on patient response and tolerability. When the potent CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the quetiapine dose should be reduced to the original dose within 1 to 2 weeks. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of quetiapine; coadministration of quetiapine with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine is eliminated primarily via hepatic metabolism, primarily by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. Administration of other hepatic enzyme inducers, such as barbiturates, can accelerate quinidine elimination and decrease its serum concentrations. Phenobarbital may decrease quinidine half-life and corresponding AUC by about 50 to 60%. Quinidine concentrations should be monitored closely after one of these agents is added. No special precautions appear necessary if these agents are begun several weeks before quinidine is added but quinidine doses may require adjustment if one of these agents is added or discontinued during quinidine therapy.
quiNINE: (Major) If concomitant administration of barbiturates and quinine cannot be avoided, frequently monitor the barbiturate concentration. Also, monitor closely for increased barbiturate-associated adverse events such as excessive drowsiness, difficulty breathing, or confusion. A single quinine 600 mg dose increased the mean plasma Cmax and AUC of a barbiturate by 53% and 81%, respectively, in 8 healthy subjects. In addition, barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers and may decrease plasma quinine concentrations.
Quizartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of rabeprazole with barbiturates may result in decreased rabeprazole plasma concentrations; monitor for signs and symptoms of reduced rabeprazole efficacy. Barbiturates induce CYP2C19 and rabeprazole is a CYP2C19 substrate.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Patients who are using racepinephrine inhalation are advised to avoid foods and beverages that contain caffeine. They should also avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients, such as caffeine, that are reported or claimed to have a stimulant effect. If a patient is taking prescribed medications containing caffeine, then they should seek health care professional advice prior to the use of racepinephrine. Additive adverse effects on the cardiovascular and nervous system are possible, some which may be undesirable. Side effects such as nausea, tremor, nervousness, difficulty with sleep, and increased heart rate may be additive. Consider alternatives to racepinephrine for the treatment of asthma.
Ramelteon: (Major) Barbiturates can induce CYP1A2, the major metabolic pathway for ramelteon, and may eventually accelerate the clearance (and, thus, reduce the sedative properties) of ramelteon. Administration of multiple doses of a potent CYP inducer (rifampin) resulted in a mean decrease of approximately 80% in total exposure to ramelteon and its metabolite M-II. Additive CNS depression may also occur. The induction of ramelteon metabolism would likely require several days of barbiturate administration while additive drowsiness would appear immediately. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of any CNS-depressant drugs and any barbiturate; dosage reduction of one or both agents may be necessary. If the medications must be used together, monitor for the effectiveness of ramelteon. Hypnotic barbiturates are best avoided during ramelteon therapy; the manufacturer warns against using other medications for sleep concurrently with ramelteon. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking melatonin or the melatonin analogs (ramelteon, tasimelteon) for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) Ranolazine is contraindicated in patients receiving drugs known to be CYP3A inducers including barbiturates. Induction of CYP3A metabolism could lead to decreased ranolazine plasma concentrations and decreased efficacy.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Although sympathomimetics and psychostimulants are contraindicated for use with other monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of MAOIs can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including buprenorphine, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Use these drugs cautiously with MAOIs; warn patients to not drive or perform other hazardous activities until they know how a particular drug combination affects them. In some cases, the dosages of the CNS depressants may need to be reduced.
Red Yeast Rice: (Moderate) Since certain red yeast rice products (i.e., pre-2005 Cholestin formulations) contain lovastatin, clinicians should use red yeast rice cautiously in combination with drugs known to interact with lovastatin. CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, can theoretically reduce the effectiveness of HMG-CoA reductase activity via induction of CYP3A4 metabolism.
Regadenoson: (Major) Caffeine is a non-specific adenosine receptor antagonist and can interfere with the efficacy of regadenoson. Patients should avoid consumption of any products containing caffeine (including caffeine from foods and beverages such as coffee, green tea, other teas, colas, and chocolate) for at least 12 hours before regadenoson administration.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relacorilant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease relacorilant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Relacorilant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of estrogens is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be required. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of remifentanil with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Remimazolam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Repaglinide: (Major) Coadministration of barbiturates and repaglinide may decrease the serum concentration of repaglinide; if coadministration is necessary, a dose increase of repaglinide may be necessary and increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers and repaglinide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for the possibility of reduced effectiveness of repaglinide and possible symptoms indicating hyperglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with barbiturates due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Revumenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease revumenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additionally, concomitant use may increase exposure to M1, the active metabolite of revumenib, which may increase the risk for adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Revumenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) It may be necessary to adjust the dosage of butalbital if given concurrently with rifampin. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of butalbital; coadministration may result in decreased butalbital plasma concentrations. (Minor) Rifampin is a potent inducer of the cytochrome P450 hepatic enzyme system and can reduce the plasma concentrations and possibly the efficacy of caffeine, including caffeine found in green tea products.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering barbiturates with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Barbiturates are inducers of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; rilpivirine is metabolized by this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Coadministration of riluzole with barbiturates may result in decreased riluzole efficacy. In vitro findings suggest decreased riluzole exposure is likely. Riluzole is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are CYP1A2 inducers.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with butalbital; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ripretinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ripretinib with barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite (DP-5439), which may decrease ripretinib anti-tumor activity. Ripretinib and DP-5439 are metabolized by CYP3A and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ripretinib exposure by 61% and decreased DP-5439 exposure by 57%.
Risedronate: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of risedronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in risperidone efficacy during concomitant use of risperidone and barbiturates and increase risperidone dosage as appropriate based on response. For patients receiving long-acting risperidone dosage forms, supplemental oral risperidone may be required. Additionally, monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration due to the risk for additive CNS depression. Concomitant use may decrease risperidone exposure and increase the risk for CNS depression. Risperidone is a CYP3A substrate, and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced risperidone overall exposure by 50%.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ritlecitinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 2.65-fold; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease the exposure of both drugs, resulting in reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased virologic response and decreased efficacy of the barbiturate. A dose increase of the barbiturate may be necessary. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and inducer and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Salicylates such as aspirin are known to increase bleeding, and bleeding risk may be increased when these drugs are used concomitantly with rivaroxaban. The safety of long-term concomitant use of these drugs has not been studied. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding or blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with salicylates. In a single-dose drug interaction study, no pharmacokinetic interactions were observed after concomitant administration of acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin, ASA) with rivaroxaban.
Roflumilast: (Major) Coadminister barbiturates and roflumilast cautiously as this may lead to reduced systemic exposure to roflumilast. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4 and roflumilast is a CYP3A4 substrate. In pharmacokinetic study, administration of a single dose of roflumilast in patients receiving another CYP3A4 inducer, rifampin, resulted in decreased roflumilast Cmax and AUC, as well as increased Cmax and decreased AUC of the active metabolite roflumilast N-oxide.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Romidepsin is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, like barbiturates, may decrease systemic concentrations of romidepsin. Use caution when concomitant administration of these agents is necessary.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Rotigotine: (Major) Concomitant use of rotigotine with other CNS depressants, such as butalbital, can potentiate the sedation effects of rotigotine.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rucaparib is necessary. Some patients may need to reduce or limit their caffeine intake. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased the AUC of caffeine by 2.6-fold.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Saquinavir: (Major) Coadministration with phenobarbital and, potentially, other barbiturates may increase the metabolism of saquinavir and lead to decreased saquinavir concentrations resulting in reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and development of viral resistance. If saquinavir and barbiturates are used together, the patient must be closely monitored for antiviral efficacy.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sebetralstat and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sebetralstat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sebetralstat overall exposure by 83%.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of barbiturates, and barbiturates increase caffeine elimination. Higher caffeine doses may be needed after barbiturate administration.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and barbiturates should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed barbiturates. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of barbiturates. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on barbiturates, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and barbiturate are strong CYP3A inducers. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Moderate) Barbiturates can accelerate the hepatic clearance of progestins. For hormonal contraceptives, this interaction could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. For patients regularly taking a barbiturate, an alternative or back-up method of contraception may be advisable to ensure contraceptive reliability during the use of the barbiturate, and for 1 month following the discontinuation of barbiturate use. The exception is the use of levonorgestrel progestin IUDs, which have not been reported to interact and appear to maintain reliable efficacy. Pregnancy has been reported during therapy with both estrogen- and/or progestin-based oral contraceptives in patients receiving barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital). For patients taking progestins for other indications, like hormone replacement, monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of reduced therapeutic efficacy or need for dosage adjustment. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of ethinyl estradiol is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase caffeine overall exposure by 3-fold.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Although psychostimulants are contraindicated for use with other monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with selegiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of selegiline at manufacturer recommended doses. However, cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension is possible if doses are exceeded or caffeine intake is excessive. (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of selegiline and barbiturates. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Although barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers and selegiline is a CYP3A4 substrate, adequate studies have not been conducted to evaluate their effect, if any, on the effectiveness of selegiline.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased selpercatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease selpercatinib exposure by 40% to 70%.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased selumetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selumetinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease selumetinib exposure by 38%.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methylphenidate or its derivatives. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Sertraline: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if general anesthetics are used concomitantly with barbiturates.
Sildenafil: (Minor) Sildenafil is metabolized principally by the hepatic CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 isoenzymes. It can be expected that concomitant administration of CYP3A4 enzyme-inducers will decrease plasma levels of sildenafil, however, no interaction studies have been performed. CYP3A4 inducers include barbiturates.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Barbiturates are significant hepatic CYP3A4 inducers. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering efficacy when barbiturates are co-administered with simvastatin, which is metabolized by CYP3A4.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and butalbital is not recommended for patients with CYP2C9*1/*3 and *2/*3 genotypes due to a significant decrease in siponimod exposure. Use of siponimod with butalbital is not recommended in any patient if they are also receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 inducer. Across CYP2C9 genotypes, coadministration of a moderate CYP3A4 inducer reduced siponimod exposure by up to 52%, according to in silico evaluation. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/strong CYP3A4 dual inducer decreased siponimod exposure by 57% in CY2C9*1/*1 subjects.
Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and barbiturates as use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A and P-gp inducers. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer decreased sirolimus overall exposure by 82%.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Sodium Benzoate; Sodium Phenylacetate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate. (Moderate) Caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously with oxybates. Monitor for potential side effects such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, and/or cardiac arrhythmias.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Thiosulfate; Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
Solifenacin: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Beverages containing caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urine output, and counteract the effectiveness of solifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements, or beverages.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and caffeine. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Sparsentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Barbiturates, such as butalbital, may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with spironolactone. (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for decreased efficacy of spironolactone if coadministration with aspirin is necessary. The spironolactone dose may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those receiving diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of spironolactone and aspirin may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. Aspirin may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone. A single aspirin 600 mg dose inhibited the natriuretic effect of spironolactone, which was hypothesized be due to inhibition of tubular secretion of canrenone, causing decreased effectiveness of spironolactone.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Barbiturates, such as butalbital, may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with spironolactone. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for decreased efficacy of spironolactone if coadministration with aspirin is necessary. The spironolactone dose may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those receiving diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of spironolactone and aspirin may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. Aspirin may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone. A single aspirin 600 mg dose inhibited the natriuretic effect of spironolactone, which was hypothesized be due to inhibition of tubular secretion of canrenone, causing decreased effectiveness of spironolactone.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Inducers of CYP1A2, such as St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum, may induce the hepatic oxidative metabolism of caffeine.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of caffeine when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of caffeine resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP1A2 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions. (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and butalbital. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
Streptomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of sufentanil with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if barbiturates must be administered. If concurrent use of sufentanil injection is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concurrent use of sufentanil with barbiturates may decrease sufentanil plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of barbiturates may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate.
sulfADIAZINE: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
sulfaSALAzine: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonamides: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sulindac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Suzetrigine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Drugs such as barbiturates, which can induce cytochrome P-450 3A4, may decrease whole blood concentrations of tacrolimus. Monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood concentrations and appropriate dosage adjustments of tacrolimus are recommended. (Moderate) Tacrolimus, in the absence of overt renal impairment, may adversely affect renal function. Care should be taken in using tacrolimus with other nephrotoxic drugs, such as salicylates.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of tapentadol with a barbiturate may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a barbiturate to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tasimelteon: (Major) Concurrent use of tasimelteon and strong inducers of CYP3A4, such as barbiturates or primidone, should be avoided. Because tasimelteon is partially metabolized via CYP3A4, a large decrease in exposure is possible with the potential for reduced efficacy. During administration of tasimelteon with another potent inducer of CYP3A4, tasimelteon exposure decreased by about 90%. Barbiturates also induce CYP1A2, a secondary metabolic pathway of tasimelteon. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking melatonin or the melatonin analogs (ramelteon, tasimelteon) for sleep should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tazemetostat and barbiturates due to the risk for decreased tazemetostat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tazemetostat overall exposure by 84%.
Telavancin: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur with concurrent use. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and barbiturates are P-gp inducers. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Terbutaline: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Teriflunomide: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of caffeine during coadministration of teriflunomide. Teriflunomide may be a weak inducer of CYP1A2. When teriflunomide was given concurrently with caffeine in vivo, a CYP1A2 substrate, the Cmax and AUC of caffeine decreased by 18% and 55%, respectively.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as butalbital, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Thalidomide: (Major) The use of barbiturate anxiolytics, sedatives, or hypnotics with thalidomide may cause an additive sedative effect and should be avoided. Thalidomide frequently causes drowsiness and somnolence. Dose reductions may be required. Patients should be instructed to avoid situations where drowsiness may be a problem and not to take other medications that may cause drowsiness without adequate medical advice. Advise patients as to the possible impairment of mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks, such as driving a car or operating other complex or dangerous machinery.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Major) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant. The concurrent administration of caffeine to patients taking aminophylline may produce excessive caffeine-like side effects, such as nausea, irritability or nervousness. Adverse effects such as tremors, insomnia, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently. Patients should avoid medications containing caffeine when possible. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects. (Major) Caffeine is a CNS stimulant. The concurrent administration of caffeine to patients taking theophylline may produce excessive caffeine-like side effects, such as nausea, irritability or nervousness. Adverse effects such as tremors, insomnia, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible when excessive dosages of caffeine are taken concurrently with theophylline. Patients taking theophylline should avoid medications containing caffeine when possible. Patients may also need to limit their intake of caffeine-containing beverages or foods (e.g., coffee, green tea, other teas, colas, or chocolate) to avoid caffeine-like side effects. In neonates, theophylline is metabolized to caffeine; initiating caffeine after theophylline therapy is halted may result in caffeine toxicity in neonates if serum caffeine levels are not monitored prior to the initiation of caffeine therapy. Concurrent use of theophylline with caffeine in neonates is not recommended due to the potential for additive toxicity. (Moderate) The metabolism of aminophylline can be increased by concurrent use with barbiturates. Patients should be monitored for loss of therapeutic effect if a barbiturate is added is added to aminophylline therapy. Conversely, the hypnotic effects of barbiturates can be reduced by aminophylline. (Moderate) The metabolism of theophylline can be increased by concurrent use with barbiturates. Patients should be monitored for loss of therapeutic effect if a barbiturate is added is added to theophylline therapy. Conversely, the hypnotic effects of barbiturates can be reduced by theophylline.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of the barbiturates. Barbiturates may induce the hepatic metabolism of thiothixene, possibly resulting in decreased neuroleptic effect. Thiothixene does not intensify the anticonvulsant effects of the barbiturates.
Thrombin Inhibitors: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Thyroid hormones: (Minor) Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, including barbiturates, can increase the catabolism of thyroid hormones. Be alert for a decreased response to thyroid replacement agents with dosage adjustments, discontinuation or addition of barbiturates during thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ticagrelor with barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ticagrelor. Ticagrelor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ticagrelor exposure by 86%. (Moderate) Monitor for increased bleeding and avoid aspirin doses greater than 100 mg during ticagrelor coadministration. Lower aspirin doses (100 mg or less) are associated with a lower risk of bleeding. Additionally, maintenance doses of aspirin above 300 mg decreased ticagrelor efficacy compared with doses of 100 mg or less in a clinical trial.
Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Caution should be used when administering tipranavir to patients receiving platelet inhibitors. In clinical trials, there have been reports of intracranial bleeding, including fatalities, in HIV infected patients receiving tipranavir as part of combination antiretroviral therapy. In many of these reports, the patients had other medical conditions (CNS lesions, head trauma, recent neurosurgery, coagulopathy, hypertension, or alcoholism/alcohol abuse) or were receiving concomitant medications, including platelet inhibitors, that may have caused or contributed to these events. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of tipranavir if coadministered with barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of tipranavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Tipranavir is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are CYP3A inducers.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Tivozanib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tivozanib with barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of tivozanib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tivozanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the overall exposure of tivozanib by 52%.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression.
Tobacco: (Major) Advise patients who are taking caffeine to avoid smoking tobacco. Smoking tobacco has been observed to increase caffeine clearance by 50% to 70%. Caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and smoking tobacco induces CYP1A2.
Tobramycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Tofacitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tofacitinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease tofacitinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tofacitinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tofacitinib overall exposure by 84%.
Tolcapone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known.
Tolmetin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Tolterodine: (Minor) Beverages containing caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms and counteract the effectiveness of tolterodine to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements, or beverages.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Although topiramate is not extensively metabolized (70% renally eliminated), an interaction with barbiturates via hepatic isoenzyme activity is possible. In patients receiving either phenobarbital or primidone in combination with topiramate, there was a < 10% change in phenobarbital or primidone plasma concentrations; the effects on topiramate plasma concentrations were not evaluated. Barbiturates may cause additive sedation or other CNS depressive effects when used concurrently with topiramate. When topiramate is combined with phentermine for the treatment of obesity, a greater risk of CNS depression exists. Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that cause thrombocytopenia, such as the barbiturates, may also increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients appropriately.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as a barbiturate, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of tramadol with a barbiturate can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of seizures, serotonin syndrome, and the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with barbiturates may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with barbiturates to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, concomitant use of tramadol with a barbiturate can decrease tramadol concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a barbiturate may increase the risk of seizures, serotonin syndrome, and the risk of opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4; tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Barbiturates have been shown to enhance the hepatic clearance of verapamil. The effect on oral verapamil is greater than for IV verapamil, but a significant increase in clearance has been noted for both verapamil dosage forms during concomitant administration of a barbiturate. Patients receiving verapamil should be monitored for loss of therapeutic effect if barbiturates are added. (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Minor) In a few reported cases, coadministration of verapamil with aspirin, ASA has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone. The exact mechanism and clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. (Minor) Verapamil reduces the clearance of caffeine and increases serum caffeine concentrations, presumably via inhibition of hepatic metabolism. During concomitant therapy with verapamil, it may be prudent to advise patients to limit or minimize the intake of caffeinated products to minimize caffeine-related side effects.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Excessive use of caffeine in any form should be avoided in patients receiving Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Limit caffeine intake during MAOI use and for 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of any MAOI. The use of non-prescription medicines or dietary supplements containing caffeine should be avoided. Patients should try to avoid or limit the intake of all items containing caffeine such as tea, coffee, chocolate, and cola. Cardiac arrhythmias or severe hypertension may occur because of the potentiation of caffeine's sympathomimetic effects by MAOIs if caffeine intake is excessive. (Major) The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. This may enhance drowsiness or dizziness. Barbiturates should generally be given at a reduced dose with an MAOI.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of trazodone and butalbital. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant trazodone and salicylate use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors are coadministered with another anticoagulant.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin with barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease tretinoin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in decreased exposure to triamcinolone. Butalbital is a CYP3A4 inducer; triamcinolone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for decreased response to triamcinolone during concurrent use. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines are CNS depressant drugs that may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with anxiolytic, sedative, and hypnotic type drugs, such as the barbiturates. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension. Phenothiazines can also lower the seizure threshold, which may be important in patients taking a barbiturate for the treatment of seizures. Additionally, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of other CNS depressants than with the use of sedatives alone. Monitor for additive effects, unusual moods or behaviors, and warn about the potential effects to driving and other activities.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), when used concomitantly with anticonvulsants, can increase CNS depression and may also lower the seizure threshold, leading to pharmacodynamic interactions. In addition, pharmacokinetic interactions may occur. Barbiturates may increase TCA metabolism. Monitor patients during concurrent use.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression may occur if barbiturates are used concomitantly with triprolidine.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Valbenazine: (Major) Co-administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, and valbenazine, a CYP3A4 substrate, is not recommended. Strong CYP3A4 inducers can decrease systemic exposure of valbenazine and its active metabolite compared to the use of valbenazine alone. Reduced exposure of valbenazine and its active metabolite may reduce efficacy.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Major) Patients who are taking barbiturates should generally avoid concomitant administration of valerian. Any substances that act on the CNS, including sedatives and hypnotics, may theoretically interact with valerian, Valeriana officinalis. The valerian derivative, dihydrovaltrate, binds at barbiturate binding sites; valerenic acid has been shown to inhibit enzyme-induced breakdown of GABA in the brain; the non-volatile monoterpenes (valepotriates) have sedative activity. These interactions are probably pharmacodynamic in nature. There is a possibility of interaction with valerian at normal prescription dosages of sedatives and hypnotics.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Concurrent salicylate therapy can increase the free-fraction of valproic acid, causing possible valproic acid toxicity. Valproic acid levels should be monitored when these agents are used concomitantly. (Moderate) Valproic acid has been shown to inhibit the hepatic metabolism of phenobarbital. It is likely that other barbiturates, like butalbital, would be affected similarly by valproic acid. Patients should be monitored for an exaggerated barbiturate effect if valproic acid is used concomitantly.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Vancomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as vancomycin, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 82% and 90%, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 82% and 90%, respectively.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Verapamil: (Major) Barbiturates have been shown to enhance the hepatic clearance of verapamil. The effect on oral verapamil is greater than for IV verapamil, but a significant increase in clearance has been noted for both verapamil dosage forms during concomitant administration of a barbiturate. Patients receiving verapamil should be monitored for loss of therapeutic effect if barbiturates are added. (Minor) In a few reported cases, coadministration of verapamil with aspirin, ASA has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone. The exact mechanism and clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. (Minor) Verapamil reduces the clearance of caffeine and increases serum caffeine concentrations, presumably via inhibition of hepatic metabolism. During concomitant therapy with verapamil, it may be prudent to advise patients to limit or minimize the intake of caffeinated products to minimize caffeine-related side effects.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with aspirin is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease platelet aggregation like aspirin could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given with barbiturates.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with salicylates or other platelet inhibitors and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors).
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy. (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
vinCRIStine: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voclosporin with butalbital. Coadministration may decrease voclosporin exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease voclosporin exposure by 70%.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy. (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and other barbiturates. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates induce CYP3A. Decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar and thus decreased efficacy are possible during concurrent use.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Voriconazole is contraindicated for use with long-acting barbiturates, such as butalbital containing products. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inducers and may increase the metabolism and reduce the effective serum concentrations of voriconazole. Barbiturates are also substrates for CYP2C9, and voriconazole may theoretically increase the serum concentrations of the barbiturates.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Patients should be monitored for a decreased response to vortioxetine when barbiturates are co-administered. Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. The manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and barbiturates as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Warfarin: (Major) Co-administration of aspirin and warfarin is associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Consider alternate therapy for aspirin for analgesic or antipyretic uses. If aspirin and warfarin are coadministered, monitor the patient for signs or symptoms of bleeding. Gastrointestinal irritation and impaired hemostasis secondary to platelet inhibition have been observed with relatively small doses of aspirin. In addition, aspirin may displace warfarin from protein binding sites leading to increased anticoagulation effects. Large doses (more than 3 to 4 g/day) of aspirin can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding; hypoprothrombinemia has also been reported with aspirin doses less than 2 g/day. Lower doses (less than 100 mg) of aspirin are recommended for use in combination with aspirin for the prevention of cardiovascular events in specific cases, including in patients with mechanical mitral or aortic valve or atrial fibrillation after percutaneous coronary intervention or revascularization. The addition of warfarin to aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor in patients after ST-elevation myocardial infarction should be limited to situations where the risk of systemic or venous thromboembolism or stent thrombosis is considered to exceed that of bleeding. Data regarding the benefit vs. risk of combination therapy for other cardiovascular conditions remains unclear. (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with barbiturates is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. Barbiturates are CYP1A2 and moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A4 inducers and warfarin's enantiomers are substrates of CYP1A2/CYP2C9/CYP3A4. Discontinuation of a barbiturate during warfarin therapy has led to fatal bleeding episodes when the hepatic enzyme-inducing properties of the barbiturate subside. Clinicians should note that warfarin doses will require readjustment if a barbiturate is added or discontinued during warfarin therapy. Dosage adjustments of warfarin may be necessary within 2 weeks of beginning barbiturate treatment, but the effect of the barbiturate on warfarin metabolism may persist for more than a month after discontinuing the barbiturate.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Coadministration of aspirin may increase plasma concentrations of zafirlukast. The potential clinical sequelae of increased zafirlukast concentrations are not known.
Zaleplon: (Major) Coadministration of zaleplon and barbiturates may result in additive CNS depression. Caution should be exercised during concomitant use of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics and any barbiturate. In addition, zaleplon is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, and concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, may increase the clearance of zaleplon. Dosage adjustments should be made on an individual basis according to efficacy and tolerability. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as zaleplon should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of zanubrutinib and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased zanubrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased zanubrutinib exposure by 93%.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Zileuton: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of zileuton is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and zileuton is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Ziprasidone is partially metabolized via the hepatic CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A decrease in ziprasidone plasma levels could potentially occur if the drug is used concurrently with inducers of CYP3A4 including barbiturates. Additive CNS depressant effects are also possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with barbiturates.
Zoledronic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant zoledronic acid and aspirin use due to risk for additive nephrotoxicity.
Zoliflodacin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of zoliflodacin and barbiturates is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased zoliflodacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zoliflodacin is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce zoliflodacin overall exposure by 56%.
Zolpidem: (Major) Concurrent use of zolpidem with barbiturates should be avoided if possible due to additive CNS depression. Sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of zolpidem and other CNS depressants than zolpidem alone. Concurrent use of zolpidem with other sedative-hypnotics at bedtime or in the middle of the night is not recommended. Dosage reduction may be required for co-use in some patients. For example, a dosage reduction of the Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets to 1.75 mg/night is recommended when used with another CNS depressant. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 enzyme inducers and may cause decreased plasma concentrations of zolpidem; in some patients efficacy may be reduced. CYP3A4 is the primary isoenzyme responsible for zolpidem metabolism, and there is evidence of significant decreases in systemic exposure and pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem during coadministration of a potent CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages within the hours close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep. However, in healthy subjects (without insomnia) in a pharmacokinetic study, coadministration of caffeine at a dosage of 150 to 300 mg with zolpidem did not counteract the sedative effects of a single 10 mg dose of zolpidem.
Zongertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zongertinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zongertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, double the zongertinib dose: from 120 mg to 240 mg in those weighing less than 90 kg, and from 180 mg to 360 mg in those weighing 90 kg or more. Zongertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zongertinib overall exposure by 63%.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Zonisamide is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme 3A4. Barbiturates are inducers of CYP3A4 and can reduce the systemic exposure to zonisamide by increasing the metabolism of the drug.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of aspirin; butalbital; caffeine combination products. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about the adverse effects of each agent.
 
Pharmacologic tolerance to the sedative/hypnotic or CNS stimulation effects of butalbital or caffeine, respectively, may occur in some patients. Typically, tolerance presents as a decrease in the duration or occurrence of effects. In the case of caffeine or butalbital, tolerance can be a beneficial effect. Tolerance may result in the need for increasing doses to maintain desired therapeutic effects, and can be managed by increasing the dose or frequency. However, the ability to increase the dosage of this combination product will be limited by the maximum recommended total daily dose of aspirin. When increasing doses of analgesia are required, causes may be multi-factorial including tolerance, progression of disease, or psychologic distress.
 
Physiological dependence can occur during chronic aspirin; butalbital; caffeine therapy as evidenced by a withdrawal syndrome occurring after abrupt discontinuation of the drug in these patients. A distinct caffeine withdrawal syndrome has been described. Patients who consume or receive caffeine daily for several weeks experience notable physical and psychiatric responses including lethargy, anxiety, dizziness, or headache. Withdrawal syndromes may also be seen following chronic dosing of butalbital. Avoid abrupt withdrawal after prolonged therapy to prevent withdrawal effects. It is important to differentiate physiological dependence, the onset of a withdrawal syndrome, upon abrupt discontinuation of the drug from psychologic dependence. Psychological dependence is a behavioral syndrome characterized by drug craving, overwhelming concern with acquisition of the drug and other drug-related behaviors such as drug selling and seeking the drug from multiple sources.

anxiety, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, excitability, lethargy, tolerance


Dizziness, drowsiness, headache, and lethargy have been the most frequently reported side effects during therapy with aspirin; butalbital; caffeine. Because butalbital can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, there is a higher risk of falls, particularly in the elderly, with the potential for subsequent severe injuries. Patients undertaking activities requiring mental alertness should be warned of possible adverse effects. Excitability, depression, anxiety, and confusion may be seen, with a possible increased incidence in geriatric patients. Adverse behavioral reactions can be seen in individuals with developmental disabilities. Overuse of combination analgesics containing barbiturates by headache-prone patients frequently produces drug-induced rebound headache accompanied by dependence on symptomatic medication, tolerance (refractoriness to prophylactic medication), and withdrawal symptoms. Overuse of aspirin; butalbital; caffeine products has been defined as taking 3 or more doses per day more often than 3 days per week. The frequency of use may be more important than the dose. Rebound headaches typically include morning headache, end-of-dosing interval headache, or headache improvement with discontinuation of over-used medication. Stopping the symptomatic medication may result in a period of increased headache and then headache improvement. Analgesic overuse may be responsible for the transformation of episodic migraine or episodic tension headache into daily headache and may perpetuate the syndrome. Dizziness, drowsiness, headache, lightheadedness, and lethargy may also be signs of salicylism, mild salicylate toxicity. Symptoms of salicylism also include uncontrollable flapping movements of the hands, increased thirst, and visual impairment.


constipation, diarrhea, esophagitis, flatulence, gastritis, GI bleeding, nausea, vomiting


GI effects (i.e., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, flatulence, and constipation) are generally not severe, but have been reported during therapy with aspirin; butalbital; caffeine. Symptomatic GI disturbances occur in 2—10% of individuals receiving normal doses of aspirin for analgesia or fever, 10—30% of individuals receiving doses > 3.6 grams per day, and 30—90% of patients with preexisting GI disease. Symptoms of gastric distress can be reduced if aspirin-containing products are taken with food or a full glass of water. Rare cases of esophagitis have been reported in patients receiving aspirin, characterized by sudden onset odynophagia, retrosternal pain, and dysphagia, with severe complications (including esophageal ulceration, esophageal stricture, bleeding, and perforation) reported rarely. Risk factors for aspirin-induced esophageal effects include taking the medication without water and at night. Symptoms usually resolve within days to weeks after discontinuation. Raising the intragastric pH increases the amount of aspirin in the unionized form, and some data indicate that agents such as cimetidine or antacids can reduce mucosal injury. GI bleeding or erosive gastritis can be minor or life-threatening, and may result from a combination of direct irritant action on the stomach mucosa and an increased bleeding time. In general, the severity of GI bleeding with aspirin is dose-related. Occult GI bleeding occurs in many patients and is not necessarily correlated with GI distress. While the amount of blood lost is usually not significant, blood loss can result in iron deficiency anemia. Patients taking aspirin in large doses (> 15 tablets per week) or regularly (>= 4 days per week) are at increased risk of GI bleeding or gastric ulceration. GI bleeding is more common with aspirin than with other salicylates and is not reduced by administering aspirin with food. 


anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions


Anaphylactic shock and anaphylactoid reactions, including angioedema and acute bronchospasm, may occur with aspirin therapy. Most allergic reactions occur within minutes and almost always within an hour of ingestion, although delayed reactions have been noted. Aspirin hypersensitivity may manifest as a respiratory reaction including rhinitis and/or asthma or with urticaria and angioedema. Aspirin hypersensitivity, however, is uncommon and occurs in only 0.3% of the general population. Patients with chronic urticaria have the highest incidence (20%), followed by patients with asthma (4%) and patients with chronic rhinitis (1.5%). Sensitivity is manifested primarily as bronchospasm in asthmatic patients and is most commonly associated with nasal polyps. The correlation of aspirin hypersensitivity, asthma, and nasal polyps is known as the aspirin triad.


insomnia, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, tremor


Caffeine is a CNS stimulant. Many adverse reactions to caffeine are an extension of its pharmacologic actions. At therapeutic or nontoxic doses, caffeine can cause tremor, sinus tachycardia, and heightened attentiveness. Adverse reactions also include diarrhea, excitability, palpitations, insomnia, headache, and muscle twitches. After excessive doses, caffeine can cause considerable nausea, vomiting, and anxiety. Cardiac arrhythmias, seizures, and delirium are possible after deliberate overdoses. A distinct caffeine withdrawal syndrome has been described. Patients who consume or receive caffeine daily for several weeks experience notable physical and psychiatric responses including lethargy, anxiety, dizziness, or headache.


respiratory depression


Butalbital, like other barbiturates, can cause respiratory depression. Respiratory depression is more common in elderly or debilitated patients, or when the medication is given with other agents that cause CNS depression.


hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic necrosis, hyperbilirubinemia, hypertension, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice


Aspirin may cause reversible hepatotoxicity primarily manifested as mild focal hepatic necrosis and portal hypertension with elevated hepatic enzymes (usually transaminases) and hyperbilirubinemia. Jaundice has been reported in some patients. Salicylates are rarely associated with hypoprothrombinemia resulting in a prolonged prothrombin time and chronic hepatitis. Salicylate-induced hepatotoxicity is usually mild, but in some cases fatalities or hepatic encephalopathy have occurred.


erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, maculopapular rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis


Several cases of dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme, have been reported with aspirin; butalbital; caffeine use. Barbiturates may cause photosensitivity, acneiform rash, and purpura; however, discontinuing the drug may not be sufficient to reverse cutaneous reactions because of the slow metabolism and excretion of butalbital. When aspirin is associated with dermatologic reactions it is usually reported in patients who receive aspirin therapy for > 1 week continually or with overdosage. Dermatologic reactions associated with aspirin include acneiform rash, erythema nodosum, maculopapular rash, pruritus, purpura, and urticaria. Aspirin has been rarely associated with Stevens-Johnson syndrome.


hyperuricemia


Aspirin has dose-dependent effects on plasma uric acid levels. At low doses (1—2 g per day) decreased urate excretion and hyperuricemia may be seen. Small doses of aspirin can block the effects of probenecid and other uricosuric agents that decrease the tubular reabsorption of uric acid.


azotemia, polyuria, proteinuria


In usual doses, aspirin rarely causes clinically significant renal effects in patients with normal renal function. It may cause transient urinary excretion of renal tubular epithelial cells, azotemia, albuminuria, and proteinuria. Caffeine is a mild diuretic; polyuria can occur. With chronic, high-dose use, analgesic abuse, or aspirin overdose a marked reduction in creatinine clearance, renal papillary necrosis, interstitial nephritis, or renal tubular necrosis with renal failure (unspecified) may be seen.


Reye's syndrome


Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years of age, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection or other viral illnesses. Reye's syndrome is a multisystem disorder evidenced by persistent vomiting, altered sensorium, elevated hepatic enzymes, hypoprothrombinemia, and hyperammonemia.


metabolic acidosis


At therapeutic doses, aspirin can cause changes in acid/base balance and electrolytes resulting in respiratory alkalosis. In patients with normal renal and respiratory function, this is usually compensated for appropriately. Severe acid/base disturbances may occur during salicylate toxicity. As salicylate toxicity progresses, changes resembling metabolic acidosis are present (e.g., low blood pH, low plasma bicarbonate levels, and normal or nearly normal plasma PaCO2). In reality, a combination of respiratory acidosis and metabolic acidosis is present. Alterations in water and electrolyte balance also occur in salicylate toxicity. Dehydration due to salicylate-induced diaphoresis and hyperventilation occurs. Since more water than electrolytes are lost, dehydration is associated with hypernatremia. Other laboratory changes noted in salicylate toxicity include hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia (especially in children), ketonuria, hypokalemia, and proteinuria. Prolonged exposure to high doses of aspirin also causes hypokalemia through both renal and nonrenal losses. Hyperventilation occurs due to direct stimulation of the respiratory center in the medulla. At high salicylate plasma concentrations (>= 350 mcg/ml), marked hyperventilation will occur and at serum concentrations of about 500 mcg/ml, hyperpnea will be seen. At high or prolonged doses, aspirin also has a depressant effect on the medulla. Toxic doses of aspirin can cause central respiratory depression as well as cardiovascular collapse secondary to vasomotor depression. Since enhanced CO2 production continues, respiratory acidosis occurs.


hearing loss, tinnitus


Tinnitus and hearing loss may occur in patients receiving high-dose and/or long-term aspirin therapy. These effects are early manifestations of salicylate toxicity. Tinnitus and hearing loss are usually dose-related and reversible upon dose reduction or discontinuation.


agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia


Leukopenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) have been reported rarely with salicylate therapy. Leukocytosis has occurred in patients with salicylate overdose. If hemolytic anemia occurs in patients receiving aspirin, it almost always occurs in G6PD-deficient individuals. It appears that aspirin can induce hemolysis at therapeutic concentrations if other oxidative stressors are present. Otherwise, hemolysis only occurs at much higher concentrations.


Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)


Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), a multi-organ hypersensitivity reaction, has occurred with NSAIDs. Some of these events have been life-threatening or fatal. DRESS typically presents as fever, rash, and/or lymphadenopathy in conjunction with other organ system involvement including hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Early manifestations such as fever and lymphadenopathy may be present without evidence of a rash. Discontinue the NSAID in patients presenting with such signs and symptoms in whom an alternative etiology cannot be identified.


medication overuse headache, withdrawal


Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including aspirin; butalbital; caffeine, may lead to medication overuse headache. Patients may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise patients about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of aspirin; butalbital; caffeine or any combination of therapy for at least 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use.


infertility


NSAIDs, such as aspirin, may delay or prevent prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in people who may become pregnant who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation.


Description

NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of aspirin, butalbital, and caffeine as a combination product for management of mild to moderate pain and headaches. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about the specific mechanism of action and pharmacokinetics of each agent.
 
Aspirin, butalbital, and caffeine are used together in an oral preparation to treat tension headaches, migraines, and mild to moderate pain, especially when antianxiety or relaxant effects are needed. Treatment of multiple recurrent headaches with this combination has not been well studied. According to published guidelines for the acute management of migraine, the use of butalbital-containing analgesics should be limited and carefully monitored due to concerns of overuse, medication-overuse headache, and withdrawal. Aspirin is a salicylate analgesic with similar analgesic potency to NSAIDs. Butalbital is a short-to-intermediate acting barbiturate that is used in this combination for its sedative and relaxant effects. Caffeine is found in many analgesic formulations and may be beneficial in some vascular headaches such as tension and cluster headaches and migraines. Fiorinal was originally approved by the FDA in May 1976.

Mechanism Of Action

The roles and interactions of aspirin, butalbital, and caffeine in the treatment of tension headaches are not well understood.
•Aspirin, ASA: The analgesic activity of aspirin is due to its ability to inhibit cyclooxygenase (COX). Cyclooxygenase is responsible for the conversion of arachidonic acid to prostaglandin G2 (PGG2), the first step in prostaglandin synthesis. In vivo, aspirin is hydrolyzed to salicylic acid and acetate, and many of its properties are due to salicylic acid. However, hydrolysis is not required for aspirin activity. Aspirin irreversibly inhibits COX by acetylation of a specific serine moiety. Aspirin appears to inhibit COX through two pathways and seems to have a different mechanism of action than other salicylates. The antiinflammatory action of aspirin is believed to be a result of peripheral inhibition of COX-1 and COX-2, but aspirin may also inhibit the action and synthesis of other mediators of inflammation. Salicylates are effective in cases where inflammation has caused sensitivity of pain receptors (hyperalgesia). It appears prostaglandins, specifically prostaglandins E and F, are responsible for sensitizing the pain receptors; therefore, salicylates have an indirect analgesic effect by inhibiting the production of further prostaglandins and does not directly affect hyperalgesia or the pain threshold.
•Butalbital: Sedative-hypnotic effects of butalbital are similar to phenobarbital and result from producing or enhancing the inhibitory affects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the thalamus. Barbiturates inhibit ascending conduction in the reticular formation, which interferes with conduction of impulses to the cortex causing sensory cortex depression, decreased motor activity, drowsiness, sedation, and changes in cerebral function. Barbiturates also cause a nonselective depressant effect throughout the CNS and are capable of producing all types of CNS mood alterations.
•Caffeine: Caffeine causes cerebral vasoconstriction, which decreases blood flow and oxygen tension. In combination with aspirin, caffeine may provide a quicker onset of action and enhance pain relief allowing for lower doses of analgesics. In some patients, caffeine relieves headaches by treating the effects of caffeine withdrawal.

Pharmacokinetics

Aspirin;butalbital;caffeine is administered orally. All three components are well absorbed from the GI tract. During migraines, gastric stasis may occur which could alter the pharmacokinetic parameters of these agents. Time to onset of analgesia is about 1—2 hours. All three agents undergo hepatic metabolism.
 
Aspirin, ASA: Aspirin is partially hydrolyzed to salicylic acid on the first pass through the liver and is widely distributed into most body tissues. Aspirin is poorly bound to plasma proteins, but it should be used cautiously in patients already receiving other highly protein-bound drugs due to the high protein binding of salicylic acid. Aspirin is 99% metabolized to salicylic acid and other metabolites. The elimination half-life of aspirin in plasma is about 15—20 minutes. Salicylic acid, but not aspirin itself, undergoes saturable kinetics. At low doses, the elimination is first-order and the half-life remains constant at 2—3 hours; however, at higher doses, the enzymes responsible for metabolism become saturated and the apparent half-life can increase to 15—30 hours. Because of this, 5—7 days may be required before a steady-state concentration is reached. Salicylic acid and its metabolites are excreted primarily by the kidneys. The excretion of salicylic acid is enhanced by alkalinization of the urine.
Butalbital: Butalbital is metabolized by the CYP450 hepatic microsomal enzyme system and has an average half-life of 61 hours. Butalbital induces hepatic enzymes but to a lesser degree than phenobarbital. Butalbital is almost completely renally eliminated as metabolites, although a small amount (3—4%) is excreted as unchanged drug.
Caffeine: Caffeine undergoes hepatic metabolism via CYP1A2 to paraxanthine, theobromine, and theophylline. Elimination of caffeine is renal as inactive metabolites. The elimination half-life of caffeine in adults ranges between 3—7 hours.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of aspirin-butalbital-caffeine combination products for management of mild to moderate pain and headaches. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about the specific dosages of each agent.

Oral Administration


Take as soon as headache occurs or at first sign of a migraine attack (prodromal stage).
Administer with a full glass of water. May be taken without regard to meals.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

6 tablets or capsules/day PO.

Elderly

6 tablets or capsules/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established. 

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established. 

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Patients with hepatic disease may be at increased risk of salicylate-induced adverse reactions; however, no quantitative dosage recommendations are available. This combination not recommended for patients with severe hepatic disease.

Renal Impairment

Dosage should be modified depending on clinical response and degree of renal impairment, no quantitative recommendations are available.

© 2026 Elsevier