=== niMODipine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 437)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Nimodipine is an oral calcium-channel blocking agent.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 360 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bradycardia, cardiac arrest, flushing, headache, heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, palpitations, peripheral edema, peripheral vasodilation, syncope, anemia, asthenia, diaphoresis, dizziness, elevated hepatic enzymes, fatigue, gi bleeding, hematoma, hepatitis, jaundice, myalgia, pruritus, rash (unspecified), thrombocytopenia, wheezing

In an Overdose: Specific treatments for calcium-channel blocker overdose should also be given promptly. If administered intravenously or parenterally as a result of a medication error, the drug can cause serious adverse events, including death.There have been no reports of overdosage from the oral administration of nimodipine.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Nimodipine should be used with caution in patients with hepatic disease or impairment because it undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism. Patients with hepatic cirrhosis have substantially increased bioavailability, reduced clearance and approximately two-fold increases in peak serum...

Brand Names
  - Nimotop
  - Nymalize

Dosage Forms
  - Nimodipine 30mg Oral capsule, liquid filled
  - Nimodipine 3mg/1mL Oral solution
  - Nimodipine Bulk powder
  - Nymalize 30mg/5mL Solution
  - Nymalize 30mg/5mL Solution
  - Nymalize 60mg/10mL Solution

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        60 mg PO every 4 hours for 21 consecutive days, beginning within 96 hours of the onset of subarachnoid hemorrhage.
    Heading
    For the reduction of the incidence and severity of ischemic deficits associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage from ruptured intracranial berry aneurysms

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Nimodipine should be used with caution in patients with hepatic disease or impairment because it undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism. Patients with hepatic cirrhosis have substantially increased bioavailability, reduced clearance and approximately two-fold increases in peak serum concentrations of nimodipine.
 
Nimodipine is classified as pregnancy category C. Adequate studies on the risks during pregnancy have not been conducted; therefore, it should be used during pregnancy only when clearly needed. Nimodipine distributes into breast milk; it is not recommended that this drug be given to breast-feeding women.
 
Risk-benefit should be assessed when considering the use of nimodipine in patients with bradycardia, heart failure or ventricular dysfunction, acute myocardial infarction with pulmonary congestion, or cardiogenic shock because the potential negative inotropic effects of the drug can worsen these conditions.
 
Nimodipine decreases peripheral resistance and can worsen hypotension. Nimodipine should not be used in patients with systolic blood pressures of less than 90 mm Hg (i.e., severe hypotension). Nimodipine should be used with caution in patients with mild to moderate hypotension. Blood pressure should be monitored carefully in all patients receiving nimodipine.
 
Nimodipine is approved for oral administration only for the treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage. The manufacturer label has been revised to indicate that nimodipine must not be administered by intravenous administration or by any other parenteral administration route (e.g., intraarterial administration, intracorporeal administration, intramuscular administration, intrathecal administration). Deaths and serious, life-threatening adverse events have occurred when the contents of nimodipine capsules have been injected parenterally.
 
In elderly subjects, the observed AUC and Cmax of nimodipine was approximately 2-fold higher compared to the younger study subjects following multiple oral dosing. The clinical response to these age-related pharmacokinetic differences, however, was not considered significant.
 
The safety and efficacy of nimodipine in children have not been established.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    heart failure
    General Information
    As a calcium channel blocker, nimodipine may have the potential to exacerbate heart failure in susceptible individuals or to interfere with AV conduction. However, these events were not observed in clinical trials.
    Headline
    hepatic cirrhosis, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use a lower nimodipine dose and monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely in individuals with hepatic cirrhosis or hepatic failure. Nimodipine metabolism is decreased in individuals with hepatic failure. Given nimodipine plasma concentrations are increased in individuals with hepatic cirrhosis, this population is at higher risk of adverse reactions.
    Headline
    parenteral administration
    General Information
    Do not administer nimodipine by intravenous administration or by any other parenteral administration route. Deaths and serious, life-threatening adverse events have occurred when the contents of nimodipine capsules have been injected parenterally.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    In general, use cautious dose selection for nimodipine in geriatric adults, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of nimodipine during pregnancy. Nimodipine crosses the placenta. In animal studies, nimodipine was associated with embryo-fetal mortality, fetal structural abnormalities, and decreased fetal growth at doses equivalent to or less than those used clinically in humans.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use nimodipine with caution during breast-feeding. Nimodipine and its metabolites have been detected in human milk. However, there are limited data on their effects on the breastfed child or on milk production. Two case reports describe the use of nimodipine in breast-feeding individuals. Based on this limited data, it is estimated that a breast-fed child would receive less than 1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dosage of nimodipine.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of nimodipine during pregnancy. Nimodipine crosses the placenta. In animal studies, nimodipine was associated with embryo-fetal mortality, fetal structural abnormalities, and decreased fetal growth at doses equivalent to or less than those used clinically in humans.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use nimodipine with caution during breast-feeding. Nimodipine and its metabolites have been detected in human milk. However, there are limited data on their effects on the breastfed child or on milk production. Two case reports describe the use of nimodipine in breast-feeding individuals. Based on this limited data, it is estimated that a breast-fed child would receive less than 1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dosage of nimodipine.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with adagrasib due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Adenosine: (Moderate) Use adenosine with caution in the presence of calcium-channel blockers due to the potential for additive or synergistic depressant effects on the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for bradycardia and hypotension when alfentanil is coadministered with nimodipine. Alfentanil may cause bradycardia. The risk of significant hypotension and/or bradycardia during therapy with alfentanil is increased in patients receiving nimodipine.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving calcium-channel blockers should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. Patients receiving amifostine at doses recommended for chemotherapy should have antihypertensive therapy interrupted 24 hours preceding administration of amifostine. If the antihypertensive cannot be stopped for 24 hours before chemotherapy doses of amifostine, patients should not receive amifostine.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with amiodarone is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and amiodarone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Amobarbital: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and nimodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving nimodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Amphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Nimodipine plasma concentration and efficacy may be significantly reduced when concomitantly administered with strong CYP3A4 inducers.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if nimodipine and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in nimodipine-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares the same drug interactions. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer; substitution of fosaprepitant 115 mg IV on day 1 of the 3-day regimen may lessen the inhibitory effects of CYP3A4. The AUC of a single dose of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam, increased by 2.3-fold and 3.3-fold on days 1 and 5, respectively, when coadministered with a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam increased by 25% on day 4, and decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively, when given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15. As a single 40-mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.2-fold; the midazolam AUC increased by 1.5-fold after a single 125-mg dose of oral aprepitant. After single doses of IV fosaprepitant, the midazolam AUC increased by 1.8-fold (150 mg) and 1.6-fold (100 mg); less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with asciminib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with cobicistat due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with avacopan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Barbiturates: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with belumosudil is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Belzutifan: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with belzutifan is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and belzutifan is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with berotralstat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Bicalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with bicalutamide is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and bicalutamide is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of nimodipine with bosentan is necessary; decreased plasma concentrations of nimodipine may occur. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with brigatinib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and brigatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Calcium Acetate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Chloride: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Gluconate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Capivasertib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with capivasertib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and capivasertib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that nimodipine may potentiate the effects of carbamazepine. Patients receiving nimodipine with carbamazepine should be monitored for adverse affects and the dosages of the anticonvulsants should be adjusted accordingly. Serum concentrations of carbamazepine may be helpful in guiding dosage adjustments as peak carbamazepine serum concentrations were increased when given concomitantly with nimodipine. In addition, in epileptic patients taking carbamazepine and/or phenytoin with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with cenobamate is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with ceritinib due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chromium: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Cimetidine has been shown to increase the oral bioavailability of nimodipine due to cimetidine's effects on the cytochrome P-450 hepatic enzymes. Lower doses of nimodipine may be necessary in patients receiving cimetidine.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and nimodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving nimodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with cobicistat due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with conivaptan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with crizotinib is necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and watch for an increase in nimodipine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dalfopristin; quinupristin is necessary; consider reducing the dose of nimodipine if needed. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and dalfopristin; quinupristin is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of nimodipine.
Danazol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with danazol is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and danazol is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concurrent use with skeletal muscle relaxants and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with daridorexant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and daridorexant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with cobicistat due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with cobicistat due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with dexamethasone is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and dexamethasone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of dexmedetomidine and calcium-channel blockers could lead to additive hypotension and bradycardia; use together with caution. Dexmedetomidine can produce bradycardia or AV block and should be used cautiously in patients who are receiving antihypertensive drugs that may lower the heart rate such as calcium-channel blockers.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of calcium-channel blockers. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with duvelisib is necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Echinacea: (Moderate) Moderate and inducers of CYP3A4 may reduce the efficacy of nimodipine, although the magnitude of decrease in nimodipine plasma concentrations is not known. Echinacea is considered a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Use caution and careful monitoring when coadministering efavirenz with calcium-channel blockers; efavirenz induces CYP3A4, potentially altering serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme such as some calcium-channel blockers. When coadministered, efavirenz decreases the concentrations of diltiazem (decrease in Cmax by 60%, in AUC by 69%, and in Cmin by 63%) and its active metabolites, desacetyl diltiazem and N-monodesmethyl diltiazem; dose adjustments should be made for diltiazem based on clinical response. No data are available regarding coadministration of efavirenz with other calcium channel blockers that are CYP3A4 substrates (e.g., felodipine, nicardipine, and verapamil); as with diltiazem, calcium-channel blocker doses should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Use caution and careful monitoring when coadministering efavirenz with calcium-channel blockers; efavirenz induces CYP3A4, potentially altering serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme such as some calcium-channel blockers. When coadministered, efavirenz decreases the concentrations of diltiazem (decrease in Cmax by 60%, in AUC by 69%, and in Cmin by 63%) and its active metabolites, desacetyl diltiazem and N-monodesmethyl diltiazem; dose adjustments should be made for diltiazem based on clinical response. No data are available regarding coadministration of efavirenz with other calcium channel blockers that are CYP3A4 substrates (e.g., felodipine, nicardipine, and verapamil); as with diltiazem, calcium-channel blocker doses should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Use caution and careful monitoring when coadministering efavirenz with calcium-channel blockers; efavirenz induces CYP3A4, potentially altering serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme such as some calcium-channel blockers. When coadministered, efavirenz decreases the concentrations of diltiazem (decrease in Cmax by 60%, in AUC by 69%, and in Cmin by 63%) and its active metabolites, desacetyl diltiazem and N-monodesmethyl diltiazem; dose adjustments should be made for diltiazem based on clinical response. No data are available regarding coadministration of efavirenz with other calcium channel blockers that are CYP3A4 substrates (e.g., felodipine, nicardipine, and verapamil); as with diltiazem, calcium-channel blocker doses should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Elafibranor: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with elafibranor is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and elafibranor is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering nimodipine with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated nimodipine plasma concentrations. Nimodipine is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elinzanetant: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with elinzanetant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with cobicistat due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with cobicistat due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with enasidenib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and enasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine and encorafenib due to the risk of decreased nimodipine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with ensitrelvir due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with enzalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Nimodipine plasma concentration and efficacy may be significantly reduced when concomitantly administered with strong CYP3A4 inducers.
ePHEDrine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
epiRUBicin: (Moderate) Close cardiac monitoring is recommended throughout therapy in patients receiving concomitant therapy with epirubicin and calcium-channel blockers. Individuals receiving these medications together are at increased risk of developing heart failure.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Nimodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid administration of erythromycin and nimodipine, particularly in geriatric patients. Coadministration has been associated with an increased risk of hypotension and shock. Azithromycin may be preferred if the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving nimodipine therapy. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and heart rate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormone therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive effectiveness.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Etodolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Etomidate: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and watch for an increase in nimodipine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with everolimus is necessary; consider reducing the dose of nimodipine if needed. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and everolimus is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of nimodipine.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with fedratinib is necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Monitor patients for bradycardia and hypotension when fentanyl is coadministered with nimodipine. Fentanyl may cause bradycardia. The risk of significant hypotension and/or bradycardia during therapy with fentanyl is increased in patients receiving nimodipine.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Fluconazole may decrease the clearance of calcium-channel blockers, including nimodipine, via inhibition of CYP3A4 metabolism. Monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Fluoxetine may decrease the clearance of calcium-channel blockers, including nimodipine, via inhibition of CYP3A4 metabolism.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that nimodipine may potentiate the effects of phenytoin. Because fosphenytoin is metabolized to phenytoin, additive effects are possible with concomitant nimodipine and fosphenytoin therapy. In addition, in epileptic patients taking phenytoin, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Monitor closely for therapeutic effectiveness and toxicity of both drugs.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with fostamatinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
General anesthetics: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with gepotidacin is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and gepotidacin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Ginkgo biloba appears to inhibit the metabolism of calcium-channel blockers, perhaps by inhibiting the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A non-controlled pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers found that the concurrent administration of ginkgo with nifedipine resulted in a 53% increase in nifedipine peak concentrations. More study is needed regarding ginkgo's effects on CYP3A4 and whether clinically significant drug interactions result.
Ginseng, Panax ginseng: (Moderate) Ginseng appears to inhibit the metabolism of calcium-channel blockers, perhaps by inhibiting the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A non-controlled pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers found that the concurrent administration of ginseng with nifedipine resulted in a 30% increase in nifedipine peak concentrations. More study is needed regarding ginseng's effects on CYP3A4 and whether clinically significant drug interactions result.
Givinostat: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with givinostat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and givinostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Glycerol Phenylbutyrate: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with glycerol phenylbutyrate is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and glycerol phenylbutyrate is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Grapefruit juice contains compounds that inhibit the cytochrome P-450 CYP3A4 isozyme in the gut wall. Grapefruit juice can increase the serum concentrations and oral bioavailability of nimodipine. It is generally recommended to avoid grapefruit juice ingestion during nimodipine therapy.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that nimodipine may potentiate the effects of phenytoin. Because fosphenytoin is metabolized to phenytoin, additive effects are possible with concomitant nimodipine and fosphenytoin therapy. In addition, in epileptic patients taking phenytoin, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Monitor closely for therapeutic effectiveness and toxicity of both drugs.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with nimodipine, a CYP3A substrate, as nimodipine toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Imatinib is a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4 and may increase concentrations of other drugs metabolized by this enzyme including nimodipine.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with nimodipine may result in increased serum concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Isoflurane: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have a negative inotropic effect that may be additive to those of itraconazole. In addition, itraconazole may increase nimodipine serum concentrations via inhibition of CYP3A4 with the potential for nimodipine toxicity. Edema has been reported in patients receiving concomitantly itraconazole and dihydropyridine calcium-channel blockers; therefore, caution is recommended when administering these medications in combination. A dosage reduction of the calcium-channel blocker may be appropriate.
Ketamine: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with ketoconazole due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Use lacosamide with caution in patients taking concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction, such as calcium-channel blockers, because of the risk of AV block, bradycardia, or ventricular tachyarrhythmia. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG prior to lacosamide initiation and after treatment has been titrated to steady-state. In addition, monitor patients receiving lacosamide via the intravenous route closely.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Lanreotide: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of bradycardia-inducing drugs (e.g., calcium-channel blockers) may have an additive effect on the reduction of heart rate associated with lanreotide. Adjust the calcium-channel blocker dose if necessary.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and nimodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving nimodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of nimodipine with lapatinib is necessary; a reduction of the nimodipine dose may be necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lapatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean peak nimodipine plasma concentrations by 50% and increased the mean AUC by 90%.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and watch for an increase in nimodipine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with larotrectinib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of nimodipine if needed. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and larotrectinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of nimodipine.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if lasmiditan is coadministered with calcium-channel blockers as concurrent use may increase the risk for bradycardia. Lasmiditan has been associated with lowering of heart rate. In a drug interaction study, addition of a single 200 mg dose of lasmiditan to another heart rate lowering drug decreased heart rate by an additional 5 beats per minute.
Lazertinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with lazertinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with oral lefamulin is necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of nimodipine may occur if given with letermovir. A nimodipine dose reduction may be necessary. Avoid this combination in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine because the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with ketoconazole due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Lisdexamfetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor for neurologic adverse reactions during concomitant use of lithium and calcium channel blockers. Concomitant use may increase the risk of neurologic adverse reactions, such as ataxia, tremors, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and/or tinnitus.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with lonafarnib due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Lorlatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Concomitant use of lumacaftor; ivacaftor and nimodipine should generally be avoided, as the systemic exposure and therapeutic efficacy of nimodipine may be significantly reduced. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely and increase the nimodipine dosage as appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Concomitant use of lumacaftor; ivacaftor and nimodipine should generally be avoided, as the systemic exposure and therapeutic efficacy of nimodipine may be significantly reduced. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely and increase the nimodipine dosage as appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with maribavir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Mavacamten: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant calcium-channel blocker and melatonin use. Melatonin may impair the efficacy of calcium-channel blockers. In a placebo-controlled study, melatonin evening ingestion led to significant increases in blood pressure (6.5 mmHg systolic and 4.9 mmHg diastolic) and heart rate (3.9 bpm) throughout the day in patients taking a calcium channel blocker Melatonin appeared to antagonize the antihypertensive effects of the calcium channel blocker.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Meropenem: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with meropenem is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with meropenem is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and meropenem is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Methohexital: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate if coadministration of nimodipine with mifepristone is necessary. Concurrent use may result in elevated nimodipine concentrations. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with mitapivat is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with nimodipine; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of nimodipine.
Mobocertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Nefazodone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor which theoretically may decrease hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with nevirapine is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially calcium-channel blockers. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with nirogacestat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Odevixibat: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with odevixibat is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and odevixibat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Fluoxetine may decrease the clearance of calcium-channel blockers, including nimodipine, via inhibition of CYP3A4 metabolism. (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Olutasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with olutasidenib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and olutasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Omaveloxolone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Rifabutin may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as nimodipine and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of nimodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Nimodipine is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of nimodipine may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with osilodrostat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Palbociclib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of nimodipine with palbociclib is necessary; a reduction of the nimodipine dose may be necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and palbociclib is a weak, time-dependent CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean peak nimodipine plasma concentrations by 50% and increased the mean AUC by 90%.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and calcium-channel blockers who are susceptible to hypotension.
Pasireotide: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of nimodipine. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
PENTobarbital: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with pexidartinib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
PHENobarbital: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that nimodipine may potentiate the effects of phenytoin. Because fosphenytoin is metabolized to phenytoin, additive effects are possible with concomitant nimodipine and fosphenytoin therapy. In addition, in epileptic patients taking phenytoin, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Monitor closely for therapeutic effectiveness and toxicity of both drugs.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with pirtobrutinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pirtobrutinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate if coadministration of nimodipine with posaconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may result in elevated nimodipine concentrations. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used. The use of alpha-blockers with verapamil can lead to excessive hypotension; In addition, verapamil has been reported to increase the AUC and Cmax of prazosin.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with primaquine is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and primaquine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Propofol: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Protease inhibitors: (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider during concurrent use of an MAOI and a calcium-channel blocker.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with relacorilant due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Remdesivir: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with remdesivir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and remdesivir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) The risk of significant hypotension and/or bradycardia during therapy with remifentanil may be increased in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers due to additive hypotensive effects.
Repotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with repotrectinib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with ribociclib due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with ribociclib due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Rifabutin may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as nimodipine and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of nimodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
rifAMPin: (Major) Rifampin is a potent hepatic enzyme inducer and has been shown to reduce the oral bioavailability of some calcium channel blockers. Patients should be monitored for loss of therapeutic effect if rifampin is added to nimodipine therapy.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine and rifapentine due to the risk of decreased nimodipine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone has been associated with orthostatic hypotension and may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Clinically significant hypotension has been observed with concomitant use of risperidone and antihypertensive medications. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of nimodipine with rucaparib is necessary; a reduction of the nimodipine dose may be necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean peak nimodipine plasma concentrations by 50% and increased the mean AUC by 90%.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Secobarbital: (Major) In epileptic patients taking phenobarbital with or without other enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants, there is a 7-fold decrease in the AUC of nimodipine due to hepatic enzyme induction. Patients receiving barbiturates and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for efficacy. Although no data are available, it is likely that nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may be affected by the coadministration of all barbiturates.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with selpercatinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and selpercatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with sevabertinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sevoflurane: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with nimodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by calcium-channel blockers. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of results.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with taurursodiol is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and taurursodiol is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with sotorasib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with spironolactone is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and spironolactone is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with spironolactone is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and spironolactone is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) St. John's wort appears to induce the metabolism of the calcium-channel blockers, such as nimodipine, apparently by the induction of the CYP3A4 isoenzyme leading to reduced clinical efficacy. The metabolism of calcium channel blockers may also be increased.
Streptogramins: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and watch for an increase in nimodipine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dalfopristin; quinupristin is necessary; consider reducing the dose of nimodipine if needed. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and dalfopristin; quinupristin is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of nimodipine.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for bradycardia and hypotension when sufentanil is coadministered with nimodipine. Sufentanil may cause bradycardia. The risk of significant hypotension and/or bradycardia during therapy with sufentanil is increased in patients receiving nimodipine.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sulindac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Suzetrigine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with suzetrigine is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and suzetrigine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Tazemetostat: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with tazemetostat is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and tazemetostat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Telotristat Ethyl: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with telotristat is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and telotristat is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with nimodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another calcium channel blocker.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide and other agents that slow cardiac conduction such as calcium-channel blockers should be used cautiously due to the potential for additive bradycardia.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with ticagrelor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ticagrelor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Timolol: (Moderate) Nimodipine, a selective calcium-channel blocker, can enhance the antihypertensive effects of beta-blockers. Although often used together, concurrent use of calcium-channel blockers and beta-blockers may result in additive hypotensive, negative inotropic, and/or bradycardic effects in some patients.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Anti-retroviral protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and may decrease the hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, leading to increased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. In addition, ritonavir and calcium channel blockers both prolong the PR interval and the manufacturer for ritonavir recommends caution during coadministration. Monitor therapeutic response and for adverse effects, such as hypotension. Decreased calcium-channel blocker doses may be warranted.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Tovorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with tovorafenib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and tovorafenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium-channel blockers and tranylcypromine due to the risk of additive hypotension. Potential for this interaction persists for up to 10 days after discontinuation of tranylcypromine (or 4 to 5 half-lives after discontinuation of the calcium-channel blocker). If a medication-free interval is not feasible, initiate therapy at the lowest appropriate dose and monitor blood pressure closely.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Treosulfan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with treosulfan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and treosulfan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with tucatinib due to the risk of significant hypotension. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that nimodipine may potentiate the effects of valproic acid. In epileptic patients taking valproic acid, there is a 50% increase in the AUC of nimodipine. Patients receiving valproic acid, divalproex sodium and nimodipine concomitantly should be monitored closely for valproic acid or nimodipine-related side effects. Doses should be adjusted accordingly.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as nimodipine, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of nimodipine when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Vepdegestrant: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with vepdegestrant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with calcium channel blockers is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use with calcium channel blockers could enhance the rate of verteporfin uptake by the vascular endothelium, resulting in enhanced photosensitivity.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially calcium-channel blockers. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Vonoprazan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with vonoprazan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with vonoprazan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and nimodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving nimodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8). (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with vonoprazan is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vorasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate if coadministration of nimodipine with voriconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may result in elevated nimodipine concentrations. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with xanomeline is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Zafirlukast is a CYP3A4 inhibitor which theoretically may decrease hepatic metabolism of nimodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate.
Ziftomenib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Nimodipine is FDA-approved only for oral administration for the treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The most common adverse reaction to nimodipine during treatment of SAH is hypotension. Although nimodipine has less effect on blood pressure than other agents at therapeutic oral doses, hypotension is still frequently reported at recommended doses (3.8%). There is potential for syncope if excessive hypotension occurs. Due to the vasodilatory effects of nimodipine, peripheral edema, flushing, and headache may occur during therapy. Sinus bradycardia has been reported in 1% of patients receiving therapeutic oral doses. Congestive heart failure has been reported infrequently (< 1%) in patients receiving higher than recommended doses (90 mg PO every 4 hours). Approximately 5% of SAH patients treated with oral nimodipine have been reported to have decreased blood pressure and about 1% discontinued therapy due to hypotension (not all could be attributed to nimodipine). Monitor blood pressure closely during treatment with nimodipine. Nimodipine is for oral administration only. Nimodipine must not be administered intravenously or by any parenteral route (see Administration and Contraindications). If administered intravenously or parenterally as a result of a medication error, the drug can cause serious adverse events, including hypotension, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiovascular collapse, and death. If nimodipine is inadvertently administered intravenously, clinically significant hypotension may require cardiovascular support with vasopressors. Specific treatments for calcium-channel blocker overdose should also be given promptly. The FDA has received numerous reports of medication administration errors in which the contents of the nimodipine capsule were injected intravenously or parenterally, rather than orally. In addition to a fatal case reported in 2005, there has been a history of these errors. Two cases were reported in 1995. Another case, which resulted in death, was reported in 1996. After the 1996 case, the manufacturer, included a bolded statement in the labeling, warning against incorrect administration. Additional non-fatal cases were reported in 1999 and in 2002. Because cases are still occurring, a black box warning has been added to the nimodipine labeling to describe the life-threatening risk of inadvertent parenteral administration. Additionally, the FDA has requested that the manufacturer develop an oral solution of nimodipine for use in patients who cannot swallow a capsule.Noncardiac adverse effects which may occur with nimodipine therapy at recommended doses include diarrhea (occasional reports), nausea/vomiting (1.2%), rash (unspecified) (0.6%), and elevated hepatic enzymes (0.4%). Asthenia and fatigue have also been reported during therapy with calcium-channel blockers. Adverse effects to nimodipine that are less frequent and that usually occur at higher than recommended doses include pruritus, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, vomiting, hyponatremia, thrombocytopenia, deep vein thrombosis, diaphoresis, neurologic deterioration, and disseminated intravascular coagulation. Nimodipine is for oral administration only. Nimodipine must not be administered intravenously or by any parenteral route. If administered intravenously or parenterally as a result of a medication error, the drug can cause serious adverse events, including death.There have been no reports of overdosage from the oral administration of nimodipine. Symptoms of overdosage would be expected to be related to cardiovascular effects such as excessive peripheral vasodilation with marked systemic hypotension. Clinically significant hypotension due to nimodipine overdosage may require active cardiovascular support with pressor agents. Specific treatments for calcium-channel blocker overdose should also be given promptly. Since nimodipine is highly protein-bound, hemodialysis is not likely to be of benefit.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiac arrest, flushing, headache, heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, palpitations, peripheral edema, peripheral vasodilation, syncope
    General Information
    The most common adverse reaction to nimodipine during treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is hypotension. Although nimodipine has less effect on blood pressure than other agents at therapeutic oral doses, hypotension is still frequently reported at recommended doses (4.4% to 5%). There is potential for syncope if excessive hypotension occurs. Due to the vasodilatory effects of nimodipine, peripheral edema, flushing (less than 1%), and headache (1.2%) may occur during therapy. Sinus bradycardia has been reported in 1% of subjects receiving therapeutic oral doses. Approximately 5% of SAH subjects treated with oral nimodipine have been reported to have decreased blood pressure and about 1% discontinued therapy due to hypotension (not all could be attributed to nimodipine). Palpitations, rebound vasospasm, and hypertension have been reported in less than 1% of subjects. Excessive nimodipine use may result in excessive peripheral vasodilation with marked systemic hypotension. Congestive heart failure has been reported rarely (less than 1%) in subjects receiving higher than recommended doses (90 mg PO every 4 hours). Clinically significant hypotension due to nimodipine overdosage may require active cardiovascular support with pressor agents. Monitor blood pressure closely during treatment. Nimodipine is for oral administration only and must not be administered intravenously or by any parenteral route. If administered intravenously or parenterally as a result of a medication error, the drug can cause serious adverse events, including hypotension, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiovascular collapse, and death. If nimodipine is inadvertently administered intravenously, clinically significant hypotension may require cardiovascular support with vasopressors. Specific treatments for calcium-channel blocker overdose should also be given promptly. The FDA has identified 31 medication errors in which the contents of nimodipine capsules were injected intravenously or parenterally. Of the 31 errors, 25 involved erroneous prescribing or administering nimodipine intravenously. Four subjects died from intravenous administration of nimodipine; 5 subjects were characterized as having near-death events; and 1 subject suffered permanent harm as a result of intravenous administration of nimodipine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasodilation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anemia, asthenia, diaphoresis, diarrhea, dizziness, elevated hepatic enzymes, fatigue, GI bleeding, hematoma, hepatitis, jaundice, myalgia, nausea, pruritus, rash (unspecified), thrombocytopenia, vomiting, wheezing
    General Information
    Noncardiac adverse effects that may occur with nimodipine therapy at recommended doses include diarrhea (occasional reports), nausea (1.2%), vomiting (< 1%), myalgia (0.2%), rash (unspecified) (0.6%), and elevated hepatic enzymes (0.4%). Asthenia and fatigue have been reported during therapy with calcium-channel blockers. Adverse effects to nimodipine that are less frequent (< 1%) include pruritus, GI bleeding, hepatitis, jaundice, anemia, thrombocytopenia, diaphoresis, wheezing, lightheadedness, dizziness, and hematoma. Additional adverse reactions that rarely occur at higher than recommended doses include hyponatremia, deep vein thrombosis, neurologic deterioration, and disseminated intravascular coagulation. Nimodipine is for oral administration only and must not be administered intravenously or by any parenteral route. Intravenous or parenteral administration as a result of a medication error, can cause serious adverse events, including death.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diaphoresis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Nimodipine is an oral calcium-channel blocking agent. Because of its selectivity for cerebral arterioles, it is used to treat subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) rather than hypertension, as other dihydropyridines are used. Nimodipine has shown efficacy for off-label use in the prophylaxis of migraine. Nimodipine has negligible effects on AV node conduction, similar to other members of the dihydropyridine subgroup. Nimodipine is FDA-approved only for enteral administration (oral, nasogastric tube or gastric tube) for the treatment of SAH. Nimodipine must not be administered intravenously or by any parenteral route. If administered intravenously or parenterally, the drug can cause serious adverse events, including cardiovascular collapse and death. The FDA has received numerous reports of medication administration errors in which nimodipine was given intravenously or parenterally, rather than orally. In addition to a fatal case reported in 2005, there has been a history of these errors. Two cases were reported in 1995. Another case, which resulted in death, was reported in 1996. After the 1996 case, the manufacturer, included a bolded statement in the labeling, warning against incorrect administration. Additional non-fatal cases were reported in 1999 and in 2002. A black box warning was added to the nimodipine labeling to describe the life-threatening risk of inadvertent parenteral administration. In May, 2013 an oral solution was FDA-approved for use in patients who cannot swallow a capsule. Nimodipine was approved by the FDA in December 1988.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mechanism of Action: Like other calcium-channel antagonists, nimodipine inhibits the influx of extracellular calcium through myocardial and vascular membrane pores that are selective for specific ions. Serum calcium levels remain unchanged. Although the exact mechanism is unknown, it is believed that nimodipine inhibits this influx by binding to specific receptors on the cell membrane in or near the calcium channel, which causes a conformational change in the channel, making it unavailable for opening. The decrease in intracellular calcium inhibits the contractile processes of smooth muscle cells, causing dilation of the arteries and increased oxygen delivery to the area being supplied.While verapamil and diltiazem exert balanced effects on calcium channels in the SA node, AV node, and vasculature, nimodipine and other members of the dihydropyridine group predominantly act on the vasculature, making these agents potent peripheral vasodilators. Specifically, at therapeutic doses, nimodipine preferentially acts on the vasculature of the central nervous system, with minimal effects on other arteries in the body. This activity is believed to be due to nimodipine's lipophilic properties, and it gives rise to its use in patients with SAH to prevent neurologic deficits that occur during or following cerebral vasospasm and in patients with migraine.† Arteriographic evidence, however, does not exist to show that it prevents or relieves vasospasm of cerebral arteries.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Nimodipine is rapidly absorbed following an oral dose but undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism, resulting in a low and variable bioavailability. Administration of nimodipine capsules following a standard breakfast results in a 68% lower peak plasma concentration and 38% lower bioavailability relative to dosing under fasted conditions. In patients with hepatic disease a resulting decrease in first-pass effect may increase nimodipine bioavailability. Oral nimodipine must be dosed frequently (e.g., every 4 hours) due to the initial rapid decline in plasma concentrations (early half-life of about 1—2 hours).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Patients with hepatic cirrhosis have substantially increased bioavailability, reduced clearance and approximately two-fold increases in peak serum concentrations of nimodipine.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    In elderly subjects, the observed AUC and Cmax of nimodipine was approximately 2-fold higher compared to the younger study subjects following multiple oral dosing. The clinical response to these age-related pharmacokinetic differences, however, was not considered significant.
  Text
  Nimodipine is administered orally or via nasogastric or gastric tube. It is distributed into all body tissues following oral administration. It crosses the placenta and, along with its metabolites, is excreted into breast milk. Hepatic metabolism results in inactive compounds that, along with unchanged drug, are excreted in the urine. The terminal elimination half-life is approximately 8—9 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate , and its metabolism may theoretically be affected by CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Preparation of oral solution from capsules (for patients unable to swallow capsules or nonstandard doses)
Doses extracted from capsules should be prepared by the pharmacy. Label oral syringes "Not for IV Use" and dispense in amber oral syringes in labeled, light-protected bags. Nimodipine can cause serious adverse reactions, including cardiovascular collapse and death, if it is accidentally given parenterally.
Make a hole in both ends of the capsule with an 18-gauge needle and extract the contents into a syringe.
A parenteral syringe can be used to extract the liquid from the capsule, but the dose should ALWAYS be transferred into an oral syringe that cannot accept a needle.
Storage: Nimodipine liquid extracted from capsules, stored in amber oral syringes, and placed in light-protected bags is stable for 30 days at room temperature.
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Nonstandard doses should be prepared by the pharmacy. Label oral syringes (one that cannot accept a needle) "For Oral Use Only"; nimodipine can cause serious adverse reactions including cardiovascular collapse and death if it is accidentally given parenterally.
Administer the contents of the syringe (supplied by pharmacy) enterally; if given via nasogastric or gastric tube, flush the tube with 10 to 30 mL of saline afterward.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Swallow the capsules whole with a little liquid, preferably at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals.
Avoid taking with grapefruit juice or grapefruit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    360 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    360 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, PO doses of up to 30 mg/day (weight 50 kg) have been reported.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    >= 7 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, PO doses of up to 30 mg/day (weight 50 kg) have been reported.
 < 7 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Reduce the dosage by 50% (e.g., 30 mg every 4 hours for subarachnoid hemorrhage), with close monitoring of blood pressure and heart rate.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Nimodipine is highly protein bound and is unlikely to be significantly removed by hemodialysis.
