=== Pentosan (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 775)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Pentosan polysulfate sodium is a weak anticoagulant (1/15 the activity of heparin).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 300 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, gi bleeding, colitis, dehydration, oral ulceration, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, hyperhidrosis, lacrimation, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, urticaria, depression, dizziness, emotional lability, headache, hyperkinesis, insomnia, nystagmus, tinnitus, dyspnea, pharyngitis, rhinitis, amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Although the anticoagulant properties of pentosan are very weak (1/15 the activity of heparin), bleeding complications have been reported (see Adverse Reactions). Pentosan should be used with caution in patients who have a coagulopathy.

Brand Names
  - Elmiron

Dosage Forms
  - Elmiron 100mg Capsule
  - Pentosan Polysulfate Sodium Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        100 mg PO 3 times daily for 3 months. May continue for an additional 3 months if pain has not improved and if limiting adverse events are not present. The clinical benefit and risks of treatment beyond 6 months for individuals whose pain has not improved is not known.
        Heading
        Adolescents 16 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        100 mg PO 3 times daily for 3 months. May continue for an additional 3 months if pain has not improved and if limiting adverse events are not present. The clinical benefit and risks of treatment beyond 6 months for individuals whose pain has not improved is not known.
    Heading
    For the treatment of interstitial cystitis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Although the anticoagulant properties of pentosan are very weak (1/15 the activity of heparin), bleeding complications have been reported (see Adverse Reactions). Pentosan should be used with caution in patients who have a coagulopathy. Use of pentosan should be carefully evaluated in any patient undergoing an invasive procedure and in any disease state in which there is an increased risk of hemorrhage, such as aneurysm, hemophilia, active inflammatory bowel disease, uncontrolled hypertension, hemostatic defects secondary to severe hepatic disease, peptic ulcer disease, or diverticulitis.Pentosan should be used with caution in patients receiving anticoagulant therapy (e.g., heparin, warfarin), thrombolytic agents (e.g., alteplase, reteplase, streptokinase), or anti-platelet agents (e.g. aspirin, ticlopidine) due to the potential increased risk of bleeding. NSAIDs should also be used cautiously because of their potential to cause GI bleeding.Pentosan should be used with caution in patients with a history of type II heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). A product similar to pentosan that was given subcutaneously, sublingually, or intramuscularly (and not initially metabolized by the liver) was associated with immune-mediated (type II) HIT. At least one case of pentosan-induced type II thrombocytopenia has been documented.Pentosan is desulfated in both the liver and spleen. The extent to which hepatic disease or splenic disorders may increase pentosan bioavailability is unknown. Therefore, pentosan should be used cautiously in patients with these disorders.Pentosan is classified as pregnancy category B. No adequate and well controlled studies exist in pregnant women. Use during pregnancy only if clearly needed.It is not known if pentosan is excreted in breast milk. Caution should be exercised if pentosan is used in a woman who is breast-feeding.The safe and effective use of pentosan has not been established in children less than 16 years old.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Pentosan is a semi-synthetically produced heparin-like macromolecular carbohydrate derivative, which chemically and structurally resembles glycosaminoglycans and is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to structurally related compounds.
    Headline
    heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)
    General Information
    Pentosan should be used with caution in patients with a history of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). A similar product that was given subcutaneously, sublingually, or intramuscularly (and not initially metabolized by the liver) is associated with delayed immunoallergic thrombocytopenia with symptoms of thrombosis and hemorrhage.
    Headline
    ocular disease
    General Information
    A detailed ophthalmologic history should be obtained in all patients prior to starting treatment with pentosan. A baseline retinal examination (including OCT and auto-fluorescence imaging) is suggested for all patients within 6 months of initiating treatment and periodically while continuing treatment. For patients with pre-existing ocular disease, a comprehensive baseline retinal examination (including color fundoscopic photography, ocular coherence tomography (OCT), and auto-fluorescence imaging) is recommended prior to starting pentosan therapy. Use pentosan with caution in patients with retinal pigment changes from other causes (e.g., retinitis pigmentosa) in which ophthalmic examination findings may confound the appropriate diagnosis, follow-up, and treatment of any reported visual disturbance. If there is a family history of hereditary pattern dystrophy, genetic testing should be considered. Pigmentary changes in the retina, reported in the literature as pigmentary maculopathy, have been identified with long-term use of pentosan. Although most of these cases occurred after 3 years of use or longer, cases have been seen with a shorter duration of use. While the etiology is unclear, cumulative dose appears to be a risk factor. Visual impairment symptoms in the reported cases included difficulty reading, slow adjustment to low or reduced light environments, and blurred vision. The visual consequences of these pigmentary changes are not fully characterized. If pigmentary changes in the retina develop, then risks and benefits of continuing treatment should be re-evaluated, since these changes may be irreversible. Follow-up retinal examinations should be continued given that retinal and vision changes may progress even after cessation of treatment.
    Headline
    aneurysm, bleeding disorder, diverticulosis, GI polyp, peptic ulcer disease, planned procedure
    General Information
    Although the anticoagulant properties of pentosan are very weak (1/15 the activity of heparin) and may increase bleeding times. Bleeding complications such as ecchymosis, epistaxis, gum hemorrhage, and rectal bleeding have been reported. Pentosan should be used with caution in patients who have a bleeding disorder, aneurysm, thrombocytopenia, hemophilia, gastrointestinal ulcerations (peptic ulcer disease), GI polyp or diverticulosis; carefully evaluate these patients before starting pentosan. Patients with an increased risk of bleeding due to other therapies such as anticoagulant therapy, thrombolytic therapy, high-dose aspirin, or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) should be evaluated for bleeding. Patients undergoing an invasive planned procedure (e.g. surgery) should be evaluated for hemorrhage. Patients undergoing surgery should speak with their doctor about when to discontinue pentosan prior to surgery.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use pentosan with caution in people with hepatic failure or insufficiency. Although pentosan has not been studied in patients with hepatic insufficiency, it is metabolized by the liver, and hepatic impairment may have an impact on the pharmacokinetics of pentosan. Mild (less than 2.5 times normal) elevations in liver function tests have occurred in patients receiving pentosan. These laboratory abnormalities are usually transient; however, they may remain stable or, rarely, progress with continued use.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of pentosan during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In animal studies, daily intravenous administration at doses 0.42 (mice and rats) and 0.14 (rabbits) times the daily oral human dose (normalized to body surface area), did not reveal evidence of fetal harm.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use pentosan with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of pentosan in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of pentosan during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In animal studies, daily intravenous administration at doses 0.42 (mice and rats) and 0.14 (rabbits) times the daily oral human dose (normalized to body surface area), did not reveal evidence of fetal harm.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use pentosan with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of pentosan in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and pentosan is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving pentosan and consider delaying the initiation of pentosan therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as other anticoagulants. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. An in vivo interaction study in humans demonstrated that a single 1 mg dose of anagrelide administered concomitantly with a single dose of aspirin 900 mg was well tolerated; there was no effect on bleeding time, PT, or PTT. However, aspirin alone produced a marked inhibition of platelet aggregation ex vivo; anagrelide enhanced the platelet inhibition effects of aspirin slightly. Patients may be at increased risk of bleeding if anagrelide is administered with aspirin.
Antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy: (Major) Avoid the use of amyloid-beta monoclonal antibody directed therapy in patients that require therapeutic anticoagulation. Anticoagulation may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients that develop other amyloid related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) while on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy.
Antithrombin III: (Major) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other anticoagulants in combination with pentosan. In a study of healthy subjects who received pentosan 100 mg or placebo every 8 hours for 7 days and received warfarin at a dose to achieve a target INR of 1.4-1.8, the pharmacokinetic parameters of S- and R-warfarin and the INR were similar with and without pentosan.
Apixaban: (Major) Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if apixaban and other anticoagulants are used concomitantly. Discontinue apixaban in patients with active bleeding. Coadministration of apixaban and other anticoagulants may increase the risk of bleeding. Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has one-fifteenth the anticoagulant activity of heparin.
Argatroban: (Major) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other anticoagulants in combination with pentosan.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Because dipyridamole is a platelet inhibitor, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if dipyridamole is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis. (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Bivalirudin: (Major) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other anticoagulants in combination with pentosan.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and anticoagulants when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) The safety of cilostazol has not been established with concomitant administration of anticoagulants. Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, concomitant administration with similar acting drugs could theoretically result in an increased risk of bleeding due to additive pharmacodynamic effects, and combinations of these agents should be approached with caution. Patients on anticoagulants should be monitored for changes in response to anticoagulation therapy if cilostazol is administered concurrently.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Because clopidogrel inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if clopidogrel is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking anticoagulants is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking an anticoagulant within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
Dabigatran: (Major) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other anticoagulants (e.g., dabigatran) in combination with pentosan.
Dalteparin: (Major) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other anticoagulants in combination with pentosan.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of bleeding if coadministration of dasatinib and anticoagulants is necessary. Dasatinib can cause serious and fatal bleeding. Concomitant anticoagulants may increase the risk of hemorrhage.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including anticoagulants.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like anticoagulants is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue systemic antithrombotic agents (not including use for routine maintenance or reopening of central venous catheters) prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Deoxycholic Acid: (Moderate) Use deoxycholic acid with caution in patients receiving anticoagulants. Excessive bruising or bleeding may occur in and around the treatment area.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Dextran: (Moderate) Because of the potential effects of certain dextran formulations on bleeding time, use with caution in patients on anticoagulants concurrently.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Because dipyridamole is a platelet inhibitor, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if dipyridamole is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis.
Donanemab: (Major) Avoid the use of amyloid-beta monoclonal antibody directed therapy in patients that require therapeutic anticoagulation. Anticoagulation may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients that develop other amyloid related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) while on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Edoxaban: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of edoxaban with pentosan due to the increased bleeding risk. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if edoxaban and other anticoagulants are used concomitantly. Coadministration of edoxaban and other anticoagulants may increase the risk of bleeding. Long-term concomitant treatment with edoxaban and other anticoagulants is not recommended; short-term use may be necessary for patients transitioning to or from edoxaban. Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has one-fifteenth the anticoagulant activity of heparin.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Use caution when discontinuing eltrombopag in patients receiving anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin, enoxaparin, dabigatran, rivaroxaban). The risk of bleeding and recurrent thrombocytopenia is increased in patients receiving these drugs when eltrombopag is discontinued.
Enoxaparin: (Major) Whenever possible, discontinue agents which may enhance the risk of hemorrhage, including pentosan, before initiation of enoxaparin therapy. If coadministration is essential, conduct close clinical and laboratory monitoring. Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant, having one-fifteenth the anticoagulant activity of heparin.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) When used concurrently with anticoagulants, epoprostenol may increase the risk of bleeding.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of eptifibatide and other agents that may affect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Methyltestosterone can increase the effects of anticoagulants through reduction of procoagulant factor. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy should be closely monitored, especially when methyltestosterone treatment is initiated or discontinued.
Etodolac: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Drug interactions with fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (Dietary Supplements) or fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (FDA-approved) are unclear at this time. However, because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 3-6 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant fish oil therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Fondaparinux: (Major) Discontinue pentosan before starting fondaparinux due to the increased bleeding risk, unless these agents are essential. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding. Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has one-fifteenth the anticoagulant activity of heparin.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Garlic produces clinically significant antiplatelet effects so additive risk of bleeding may occur if anticoagulants are given in combination. Avoid concurrent use of herbs which interact with anticoagulants when possible. If garlic dietary supplements are taken, monitor the INR or other appropriate parameters to attain clinical and anticoagulant endpoints. In regard to warfarin, published data are limited to a random case report; however, the product labeling for warfarin includes garlic as having potential for interaction due to additive pharmacologic activity. A case of spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma, attributed to dysfunctional platelets from excessive garlic use in a patient not receiving concomitant anticoagulation, has been reported.
Gefitinib: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in thrombocytopenic patients receiving antineoplastic agents in combination with anticoagulants.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) Additive bleeding may occur if anticoagulants are given in combination with ginger, zingiber officinale. Ginger inhibits thromboxane synthetase (platelet aggregation inducer) and is a prostacyclin agonist. Patients taking ginger and an anticoagulant should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and pentosan as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals. It is possible that the use of green tea may increase the risk of bleeding if co-administered with anticoagulants (e.g., enoxaparin, heparin, warfarin, and others), thrombolytic agents, or platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, clopidogrel, cilostazol and others). Caution and careful monitoring of clinical and/or laboratory parameters are warranted if green tea is coadministered with any of these agents. Exogenous administration or occult sources of vitamin K may decrease or reverse the activity of warfarin; stability of the diet can be an important factor in maintaining anticoagulation goals. Occult sources of vitamin K include green tea and green tea dietary supplements. Published data are limited in regard to this interaction. A patient with previous INRs of 3.2 and 3.79 on a dose of 7.5mg daily of warfarin (goal INR 2.5 to 3.5) had an INR of 1.37. One month later, the patient's INR was 1.14. The patient admitted that he had started consuming 0.51 gallon of green tea daily approximately one week prior to the INR of 1.37. The patient denied noncompliance and other changes in diet, medications, or health. The patient discontinued green tea and one week later his INR was 2.55. While the amount of vitamin K in a single cup of brewed green tea may not be high (0.03 mcg/100 g), the actual amount may vary from cup to cup depending on the amount of tea leaves used, the length of time the tea bags are allowed to brew, and the volume of tea consumed. Additionally, if a patient drinks multiple cups of tea per day, the amount of vitamin K could reach significance. It is recommended that patients on warfarin maintain a stable intake of green tea.
Hemin: (Major) Because hemin has exhibited transient, mild anticoagulant effects during clinical studies, concurrent use of anticoagulants should be avoided. The extent and duration of the hypocoagulable state induced by hemin has not been established.
Heparin: (Major) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other anticoagulants (e.g., heparin, warfarin) in combination with pentosan.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with coagulation such as anticoagulants; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with anticoagulants is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Icosapent ethyl is an ethyl ester of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Because omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when icosapent ethyl is used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 36 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant icosapent ethyl therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with anticoagulants, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Imatinib: (Major) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in thrombocytopenic patients receiving antineoplastic agents in combination with pentosan.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and anticoagulants due to the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of anticoagulants in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Drug interactions with fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (Dietary Supplements) or fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (FDA-approved) are unclear at this time. However, because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 3-6 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant fish oil therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Lecanemab: (Major) Avoid the use of amyloid-beta monoclonal antibody directed therapy in patients that require therapeutic anticoagulation. Anticoagulation may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients that develop other amyloid related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) while on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Methyltestosterone can increase the effects of anticoagulants through reduction of procoagulant factor. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy should be closely monitored, especially when methyltestosterone treatment is initiated or discontinued.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) When mifepristone is used for the termination of pregnancy, concurrent use of anticoagulants is contraindicated due to the increased risk of serious bleeding.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Miltefosine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering miltefosine with anticoagulants, as use of these drugs together may increase risk for bleeding. Miltefosine, when administered for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis, has been associated with thrombocytopenia; monitor platelet counts in patients receiving treatment for this indication. In addition, monitor closely for increased bleeding if use in combination with an anticoagulant.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Mycophenolate may causes thrombocytopenia and increase the risk for bleeding. Agents which may lead to an increased incidence of bleeding in patients with thrombocytopenia include anticoagulants.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Naproxen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Nelarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Nintedanib is a VEGFR inhibitor and may increase the risk of bleeding. Monitor patients who are taking anticoagulants closely and adjust anticoagulation therapy as necessary. Use nintedanib in patients with known risk of bleeding only if the anticipated benefit outweighs the potential risk.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Obinutuzumab: (Moderate) Fatal hemorrhagic events have been reported in patients treated with obinutuzumab; all events occurred during cycle 1. Monitor all patients for thrombocytopenia and bleeding, and consider withholding concomitant medications which may increase bleeding risk (i.e., anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors), especially during the first cycle.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Omacetaxine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of omacetaxine and anticoagulants when the platelet count is less than 50,000 cells/microliter due to an increased risk of bleeding.
Omidubicel: (Moderate) Because of the potential effects of certain dextran formulations on bleeding time, use with caution in patients on anticoagulants concurrently.
Oxandrolone: (Moderate) An increased effect of anticoagulants may occur with oxandrolone; the anticoagulant dosage may need adjustment downward with oxandrolone initiation or adjustment upward with oxandrolone discontinuation to maintain the desired clinical effect. Oxandrolone suppresses clotting factors II, V, VII, and X, which results in an increased prothrombin time. An increase in plasminogen-activator activity, and serum concentrations of plasminogen, protein C, and antithrombin III have occurred with several 17-alpha-alkylated androgens. For example, concurrent use of oxandrolone and warfarin may result in unexpectedly large increases in the INR or prothrombin time (PT). A multidose study of oxandrolone (5 or 10 mg PO twice daily) in 15 healthy individuals concurrently treated with warfarin resulted in significant increases in warfarin half-life and AUC; a 5.5-fold decrease in the mean warfarin dosage from 6.13 mg/day to 1.13 mg/day (approximately 80 to 85% dose reduction) was necessary to maintain a target INR of 1.5. According to the manufacturer, if oxandrolone therapy is initiated in a patient already receiving warfarin, the dose of warfarin may need to be decreased significantly to reduce the potential for excessive INR elevations and associated risk of serious bleeding events. The patient should be closely monitored with frequent evaluation of the INR and clinical parameter, and the dosage of warfarin should be adjusted as necessary until a stable target INR is achieved. Careful monitoring of the INR and necessary adjustment of the warfarin dosage are also recommended when the androgen therapy is changed or discontinued.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Moderate) Some penicillins (e.g., piperacillin) can inhibit platelet aggregation, which may increase the risk of bleeding with any anticoagulants. Clinically important bleeding of this type, however, is relatively rare. The concomitant use of warfarin with many classes of antibiotics, including penicillins, may result in an increased INR thereby potentiating the risk for bleeding. Inhibition of vitamin K synthesis due to alterations in the intestinal flora may be a mechanism; however, concurrent infection is also a potential risk factor for elevated INR. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding. Additionally, increased monitoring of the INR, especially during initiation and upon discontinuation of the antibiotic, may be necessary in patients receiving warfarin.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Concomitant use of prasugrel and other agents that may affect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and pentosan is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving pentosan and consider delaying the initiation of pentosan therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Due to the increased bleeding risk, avoid concurrent use of rivaroxaban with pentosan. Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has one-fifteenth the anticoagulant activity of heparin.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Sulindac: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and pentosan is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving pentosan and consider delaying the initiation of pentosan therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and pentosan is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving pentosan and consider delaying the initiation of pentosan therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors in combination with pentosan.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Caution should be used when administering tipranavir to patients receiving anticoagulants. In clinical trials, there have been reports of intracranial bleeding, including fatalities, in HIV infected patients receiving tipranavir as part of combination antiretroviral therapy. In many of these reports, the patients had other medical conditions (CNS lesions, head trauma, recent neurosurgery, coagulopathy, hypertension, or alcoholism/alcohol abuse) or were receiving concomitant medications, including anticoagulants, that may have caused or contributed to these events.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tirofiban and other agents that effect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
traZODone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking trazodone concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Serotonergic agents may increase the risk of bleeding when combined with anticoagulants via inhibition of serotonin uptake by platelets; however, the absolute risk is not known. It would be prudent for clinicians to monitor the INR and patient's clinical status closely if trazodone is added to or removed from the regimen of a patient stabilized on anticoagulant therapy.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of treprostinil and anticoagulants. When used concurrently with anticoagulants, treprostinil may increase the risk of bleeding.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and pentosan, which has weak anticoagulant properties. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with anticoagulants is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Serotonergic agents may increase the risk of bleeding when combined with anticoagulants via inhibition of serotonin uptake by platelets; however, the absolute risk is not known. In addition, both vilazodone and warfarin are highly protein bound, which may result in displacement of warfarin from protein binding sites and an increased anticoagulant effect. It would be prudent for clinicians to monitor the INR and clinical status of the patient closely if vilazodone is added to or removed from the regimen of a patient stabilized on warfarin.
Vorapaxar: (Major) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant with 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Avoid concomitant use of vorapaxar and warfarin or other anticoagulants. Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as anticoagulants.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Warfarin: (Major) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving warfarin in combination with pentosan. In a study of healthy subjects who received pentosan 100 mg or placebo every 8 hours for 7 days and received warfarin at a dose to achieve a target INR of 1.4-1.8, the pharmacokinetic parameters of S- and R-warfarin and the INR were similar with and without pentosan.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Bleeding complications such as ecchymosis, epistaxis, and bleeding gums have been reported with use of pentosan. These complications are due to the weak anticoagulant effects of pentosan (1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin). Pentosan should be used with caution in patients at increased risk of bleeding (see Precautions). Pentosan was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, parallel group, Phase IV study conducted in 380 patients with interstitial cystitis for 32 weeks. At a daily dose of 300 mg (n=128), rectal bleeding was reported as an adverse event in 6.3% of patients. Most of the events were described as mild. In patients who were administered 900 mg daily of pentosan, a dose higher than the approved dose, 15% experienced rectal bleeding.In clinical trials of pentosan therapy for interstitial cystitis, serious adverse events occurred in 1.3% of patients. Two patients had severe abdominal pain or diarrhea and dehydration that required hospitalization. It is unclear if these adverse events were due to pentosan therapy or other causes (e.g. concurrent illness).In a double-blind clinical trial, the incidence of adverse effects with pentosan therapy was not greater than placebo. The most frequent adverse effects reported with pentosan in unblinded clinical trials were alopecia (4%), diarrhea (4%), nausea/vomiting (4%), headache (3%), maculopapular rash (3%), dyspepsia (2%), and abdominal pain (2%).Elevated hepatic enzymes (< 2.5 x normal) have been reported in about 1.2% of patients receiving pentosan therapy. These increases usually appeared 3—12 months after initiation of pentosan and were not associated with jaundice or other clinical signs or symptoms.Increases in PTT and/or PT (< 1% of patients) or thrombocytopenia (0.2% of patients) were reported in clinical trials with pentosan. At least one case of pentosan-induced type II (immune-mediated) thrombocytopenia has been documented.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, GI bleeding
    General Information
    Bleeding complications such as ecchymosis, epistaxis, and bleeding gums have been reported with pentosan use (less than 1%) and are due to the weak anticoagulant effects of the drug (1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin). Use with caution in patients at increased risk of bleeding. Pentosan was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, parallel group, Phase 4 study conducted in 380 patients with interstitial cystitis for 32 weeks. At a daily dose of 300 mg (n = 128), rectal gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding was reported as an adverse event in 6.3% of patients. Most of the events were described as mild. In patients who were administered 900 mg daily, a dose higher than the approved dose, 15% experienced rectal GI bleeding (hematochezia).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, colitis, constipation, dehydration, diarrhea, dyspepsia, esophagitis, flatulence, gastritis, nausea, oral ulceration, vomiting
    General Information
    During the placebo-controlled trials (n=258, 128 pentosan-treated patients), nausea and diarrhea were each reported in 3 patients (2.3%), and dyspepsia was reported in one pentosan-treated patient (0.7%). Nausea and diarrhea were reported in 4% of patients and dyspepsia and abdominal pain were reported in 2% of patients in an unblinded clinical trial (n=2,499). Vomiting, oral ulceration, colitis, esophagitis, gastritis, flatulence, constipation, and anorexia were reported at a frequency of 1% or less. In the unblinded clinical trials of pentosan therapy for interstitial cystitis, serious adverse events occurred in 1.3% of patients. Two patients had severe abdominal pain or diarrhea and dehydration that required hospitalization. It is unclear if these adverse events were due to pentosan therapy or other causes (e.g., concurrent illness).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      esophagitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes (less than 2.5 x the upper limit of normal) have been reported in about 1.2% of patients receiving pentosan therapy. These increases usually appeared 3 to 12 months after initiation of pentosan and were not associated with jaundice or other clinical signs or symptoms. These laboratory abnormalities are usually transient, may remain unchanged, and, rarely, may progress with continued use. During a postmarketing study men receiving a pentosan daily dose of 900 mg (higher than the approved dose), elevated liver function tests were reported in 11.8% (n=6) of patients compared to 2% (n=1) of patients in the placebo group.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Anemia, increased prothrombin time (PT), increased partial thromboplastin time (PTT), leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia were reported in 1% or less of patients treated with pentosan for interstitial cystitis in an unblinded clinical trial (n=2,499).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia
    General Information
    Alopecia is associated with pentosan polysulfate and with heparin products. During an unblinded clinical trial involving interstitial cystitis patients (n=2,499), alopecia was reported in 4% of patients treated with pentosan and was seen within the first 4 weeks of treatment. The vast majority (97%) of cases reported were alopecia areata, limited to a single area on the scalp.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperhidrosis, lacrimation, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    During the placebo-controlled trials (n=258, 128 pentosan-treated patients), the incidence of certain adverse effects with pentosan therapy was the generally same as with placebo, or less. Increased sweating (hyperhidrosis) and lacrimation were each reported in one pentosan-treated patient (0.7%). Rash (unspecified) was reported in 3% of patients receiving pentosan in an unblinded clinical trial (n=2,499); allergic reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, and urticaria were reported in 1% or less of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lacrimation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression, dizziness, emotional lability, headache, hyperkinesis, insomnia, nystagmus, tinnitus
    General Information
    During the placebo-controlled trials (n=258, 128 pentosan-treated patients), insomnia, headache, nystagmus/dizziness, and hyperkinesis were each reported in one pentosan-treated patient (0.7% each); severe emotional lability/depression was reported twice (1.6%). Headache (3%) and dizziness (1%) were reported in patients receiving pentosan in an unblinded clinical trial (n=2,499); tinnitus was reported at a frequency of 1% or less.
    Headline
    dyspnea, pharyngitis, rhinitis
    General Information
    During the placebo-controlled trials (n=258, 128 pentosan-treated patients), the incidence of certain adverse effects with pentosan therapy was the same as with placebo, or less. Rhinitis was reported in one patient (0.7%) receiving pentosan. In unblinded clinical trials of pentosan (n=2,499), pharyngitis, rhinitis, and dyspnea were reported in 1% or less of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    vaginitis
    General Information
    During the placebo-controlled trials (n=258, 128 pentosan-treated patients), the incidence of certain adverse effects with pentosan therapy was the same as with placebo, or less. Vaginitis was reported in one patient (0.7%) receiving pentosan.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vaginitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, optic neuritis, retinal hemorrhage, retinal pigment changes, retinopathy, visual impairment
    General Information
    Conjunctivitis, amblyopia, optic neuritis, and retinal hemorrhage were reported in less than 1% of patients receiving pentosan in an unblinded clinical trial (n = 2,499). Ocular toxicity, including retinal pigment changes (pigmentary maculopathy, retinopathy), has been reported during postmarketing experience. Most cases occur after 3 years of use or longer, however, ocular toxicity has been seen during shorter durations. Cumulative dose appears to be a risk factor. Visual impairment symptoms include difficulty reading, slow adjustment to low or reduced light environments, and blurred vision. The visual consequences are not fully known. A comprehensive baseline retinal examination (including color fundoscopic photography, ocular coherence tomography (OCT), and auto-fluorescence imaging) is recommended for all patients within 6 months of beginning treatment and periodically while continuing treatment; patients with known family history of ocular disease may need more comprehensive screening. Revaluate treatment if pigmentary changes develop in the retina since changes may be irreversible. Follow-up retinal examinations should be continued since retinal and vision changes may progress even after cessation of treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      retinal pigment changes
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      amblyopia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      optic neuritis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      retinal hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      retinopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Pentosan polysulfate sodium is a weak anticoagulant (1/15 the activity of heparin). It is a semi-synthetically produced heparin-like derivative that chemically and structurally resembles glycosaminoglycans. Pentosan polysulfate sodium is administered orally for the relief of pain and discomfort associated with interstitial cystitis (IC). Pentosan appeared effective in relieving symptoms of pain, urgency, and frequency in one study. Other studies have been conflicting, with some studies showing efficacy and other studies not reporting significant improvements versus placebo. One double-blind, randomized controlled trial revealed no treatment benefit for pentosan polysulfate sodium versus placebo at the currently established dose or at a lower dose; however, the study included patients that had milder IC symptoms and other design factors may have influenced the results. Pentosan is one of the few available drug treatments for IC, and is used as a second-line agent per guidelines as part of a multimodal approach. Pentosan was FDA-approved in 1996.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Pentosan polysulfate sodium is a low molecular weight heparin-like compound. It has anticoagulant and fibrinolytic effects. The mechanism of action of pentosan polysulfate sodium in interstitial cystitis is not known.
 
Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant (1/15 the activity of heparin). This effect may increase bleeding times. Pentosan polysulfate sodium did not affect prothrombin time (PT) or partial thromboplastin time (PTT) up to 1,200 mg per day in 24 healthy male subjects treated for 8 days. Pentosan polysulfate sodium also inhibits the generation of factor Xa in plasma and inhibits thrombin-induced platelet aggregation in human platelet-rich plasma ex vivo.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Based on radiolabeled studies, approximately 6% of an oral dose of pentosan is absorbed and reaches systemic circulation. Median peak plasma radioactivity was seen approximately 2 hours (range 0.6 to 120 hours) after an oral dose when administered under fasted conditions. In clinical trials, the drug was administered with water 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals; the effect of food on absorption of pentosan polysulfate sodium is not known.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of pentosan has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. However, pentosan does undergo hepatic metabolism and hepatic impairment may have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of pentosan.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of pentosan has not been studied in patients with renal impairment.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of pentosan has not been studied in the elderly.
  Text
  Pentosan is administered orally. Preclinical studies showed distribution of the drug to the uroepithelium of the genitourinary tract with lesser amounts found in the liver, spleen, lung, skin, periosteum, and bone marrow. Erythrocyte penetration is low in animals. Pentosan is metabolized by partial desulfation in the liver and spleen and by partial depolymerization in the kidney to a large number of metabolites; both of these processes can be saturated with continued dosing. A large proportion of the orally administered dose of pentosan polysulfate sodium (mean 84% in the 300 mg group and 58% in the 450 mg group) is excreted in feces as unchanged drug. A mean of 6% of an oral dose is excreted in the urine, mostly as desulfated and depolymerized metabolites. Only a small fraction of the administered dose (mean 0.14%) is recovered as intact drug in urine. The plasma radioactivity declined with mean half-lives of 27 hours (300-mg dose) and 20 hours (450-mg dose), respectively.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes and drug transporters: None

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer the capsules with water on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    300 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    300 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    16 years and older: 300 mg/day PO.
Less than 16 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Hepatic impairment may have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of pentosan; use with caution. Dosage adjustment recommendations are not available.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific data in patients with renal impairment are not available.
