=== Alpha-1-proteinase Inhibitor — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 1183)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor (A1-PI) is a sterile, parenteral preparation of purified human alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor, which is also known as alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT).

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 60 mg/kg IV once weekly.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): candidiasis, cough, dyspnea, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, rhinorrhea, sinusitis, arthralgia, asthenia, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, malaise, migraine, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, paresthesias, cholangitis, elevated hepatic enzymes

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor (A1-PI) products are contraindicated for use by patients with alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor hypersensitivity such as a history of severe, immediate...

ALPHA-1-PROTEINASE INHIBITOR

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Aralast, Aralast NP, Glassia, Prolastin, Prolastin C, Zemaira

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of emphysema due to severe hereditary alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor (A1PI) deficiency as chronic augmentation therapy

Intravenous dosage
Adults


60 mg/kg/dose IV once weekly.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor (A1-PI) products are contraindicated for use by patients with alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor hypersensitivity such as a history of severe, immediate hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis to alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor products. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may occur during use. Monitor vital signs and observe the patient carefully throughout the infusion.

history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use, IgA deficiency with antibodies against IgA


Alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor is contraindicated in individuals with a history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use or with an IgA deficiency with antibodies against IgA due to the risk of severe hypersensitivity.


pregnancy


There are no available data on the use of alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. Use alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor during pregnancy only if clearly needed.


breast-feeding


Use alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no available data on the use of alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. Use alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor during pregnancy only if clearly needed.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Alpha-1-proteinase Inhibitor products.

Adverse Reaction
candidiasis, cough, dyspnea, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, rhinorrhea, sinusitis


Most adverse events reported with an infusion of alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor (A1-PI) products are rare or infrequent when the rates across all administered infusions are considered. All products have followed the rate of exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which is estimated at 0.11 to 1.3 exacerbations per subject-year during A1-PI therapy use; severe exacerbations occur at an incidence of 0.25 per subject-year or less. The effect of augmentation therapy with any A1-PI product on pulmonary exacerbations and the progression of emphysema/COPD in A1-PI deficiency has not been demonstrated in randomized, controlled clinical studies. However, findings from the RAPID/RAPID Extension program suggest the benefits of A1-PI therapy in slowing disease progression and provided evidence of a disease-modifying effect in patients with AATD; early introduction of treatment may delay the time to death, lung transplantation, or crippling respiratory complaints in patients with emphysema related to severe AATD. Adverse respiratory system reactions to alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor (A1-PI) products are not common. Increased cough (0.4% to 5.3%) and upper respiratory-related infection (0.4% to 15.8%) are the more commonly reported respiratory events. Direct comparisons of these events from one product to another are difficult given the various conditions and methods used in the trials; the following represents generally estimated incidence rates for respiratory events across products. Mild to moderate symptoms of bronchitis (0.8% to 5% or more), shortness of breath/dyspnea (0.2% to 0.5%), sinusitis (1.5% to more than 5%), sore throat, pharyngolaryngeal pain and/or pharyngitis (0.5% to 5% or more), and rhinitis or rhinorrhea (4% to 5% or more) have been reported with these infusions. Viral respiratory infection, oral candidiasis, and lung disorder (not specified) have been reported infrequently. Influenza-like illness and dyspnea have been reported during postmarketing experience. Parenteral A1-PI products are derived from human plasma; thus, these products may carry a risk of transmitting infectious agents such as viruses and the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease agent. The risk for infection due to A1-PI infusion is thought to be rare. During clinical trials, no cases of hepatitis A, B, C, or HIV, parvovirus B19 or any other known infectious agent were reported with these infusions as the cause. Report any infection thought to be caused by a specific product by directly contacting the specific product manufacturer.


arthralgia, asthenia, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, malaise, migraine, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, paresthesias


Most adverse events reported with an infusion of alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor products are rare or infrequent when the rates across all administered infusions are considered. Direct comparisons of these events from one product to another are difficult given the various conditions and methods used in the trials. The incidence of some events was dependent on the product administered and the weeks of therapy the patients had received when the incidence rates of the events were determined. A common adverse reaction in clinical trials of these products is a headache; the overall incidence of this reaction as a percentage of all infusions administered was 0.2% to 16%. Other events reported, irrespective of causality, across all administered infusions included: asthenia (0.2% to 1.2%), dizziness (0.2% to 6%), drowsiness (0.2% to 0.5%), musculoskeletal pain or discomfort (0.2% to 16%), paresthesias (1%), myalgia (0.2% to 0.4%), and migraine (0.4% or less); most events were reported as mild. Fatigue (8% or less), malaise (0.2% to 1.6%) and arthralgia (0.2% to 3.2%) were also reported in some trials. The following were reported during postmarketing experience with these infusions (various products): asthenia, arthralgia, fatigue, malaise, and myalgia.


anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, back pain, bronchospasm, chest pain (unspecified), chills, fever, flushing, hot flashes, hypertension, hypotension, peripheral edema, peripheral vasodilation, pruritus, rash, sinus tachycardia, syncope, urticaria, wheezing


Most adverse events reported with an infusion of alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor products are rare or infrequent when the rates across all administered infusions are considered. Direct comparisons of these events from one product to another are difficult given the various conditions and methods used in the trials. The incidence of some events was dependent on the product administered and the weeks of therapy the patients had received when the incidence rates of the events were determined. Urticaria, chest tightness, dyspnea or wheezing / bronchospasm (0.2% to 0.4%), syncope, and hypotension may be signs of hypersensitivity reactions to alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor infusions. Anaphylactoid reactions and anaphylactic shock may occur. Rash (unspecified) (0.2% to 0.5%) or pruritus (1.1% or less) might also indicate hypersensitivity. Back pain (0.2% to 0.4%), chest pain or discomfort (0.5% or less), fever (0.5% to 0.7%) chills (5.3% or less), hot flashes (0.2% to 0.4%) or flushing / peripheral vasodilation, and peripheral edema (0.2% to 0.5%) have also been reported during trials. During postmarketing experience, the following reactions have been reported with infusions of these products: hypersensitivity including anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions, flu-like symptoms, allergic-like reactions, chills, dyspnea, rash (unspecified), chest pain (unspecified), sinus tachycardia, chills, hypersensitivity, hypotension, and hypertension including transient increases of blood pressure. Promptly stop the infusion and administer countermeasures and supportive therapy if evidence of an acute hypersensitivity reaction occurs.


ecchymosis, injection site reaction


An injection site reaction, including injection site pain (1%), injection site hemorrhage (0.9%), and ecchymosis (0.2% to 16%), has been reported with alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor products in clinical trials and postmarketing experience. All events were considered mild.


abdominal pain, cholangitis, diarrhea, dyspepsia, elevated hepatic enzymes, nausea, vomiting


Most adverse events reported with an infusion of alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor (A1-PI) products are rare or infrequent when the rates across all administered infusions are considered. Direct comparisons of these events from one product to another are difficult given the various conditions and methods used in the trials. The incidence of some events was dependent on the product administered and the weeks of therapy the patients had received when the incidence rates of the events were determined. Gastrointestinal (GI) and hepatic system events are not common with A1-PI products. Nausea (0.2% to 11%) and diarrhea (0.2% to 6%) were reported in patients receiving various A1-PI inhibitor products. Abdominal pain and dyspepsia have also been reported in 0.2% to less than 0.4% of patients. Elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported (6% to 11%); some elevations were greater than 2 times to 3.7 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) and were transient lasting 3 months or less. Cholangitis was a rare, but serious adverse reaction noted during some clinical trials. Vomiting has been reported postmarketing. Urinary tract infection (up to 13%) was reported in some trials, but causality has not been determined.


Description

Alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor (A1-PI) is a sterile, parenteral preparation of purified human alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor, which is also known as alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT). The product is derived from pooled human plasma of healthy donors. A1-PI is FDA-approved for the augmentation treatment of patients with congenital AAT-deficiency (AATD) who have clinically evident emphysema. Weekly infusions raise plasma and lung epithelial fluid levels of AAT to normal in AAT-deficient individuals. Findings from the RAPID/RAPID Extension program have confirmed the benefits of A1-PI therapy in slowing disease progression and provided evidence of a disease-modifying effect in patients with AATD; the study suggests that the early introduction of treatment may delay the time to death, lung transplantation, or crippling respiratory complaints in patients with emphysema related to severe AATD. In humans, A1-PI is a broad-spectrum anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, and tissue-repair molecule, and the products are under investigation for other purposes. The drug has received orphan drug designation by the FDA in the off-label treatment of graft versus host disease, and also for patients with recent onset (less than 15 years) with Type 1A diabetes mellitus with residual beta-cell function. Several different A1-PI products are marketed.

Mechanism Of Action

Alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor (A1-PI), or alpha-1-antitrypsin (ATA) inhibits serine proteases such as neutrophil elastase. Neutrophil elastase is always present in the lungs and is capable of degrading protein components of the alveolar walls. Normally, ATA provides most of the anti-neutrophil elastase protection in the lower respiratory tract. Patients with ATA deficiency have an imbalance in the anti-neutrophil elastase protection. This imbalance allows unopposed destruction of the connective tissue framework of the lung parenchyma. Receipt of exogenous A1-PI increases the antigenic and functional (anti-neutrophil elastase capacity, ANEC) levels of A1-PI in both the serum and the lung epithelial lining fluid (ELF) of the lung.
 
Alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) is an autosomal, co-dominant, hereditary disorder that is characterized by low serum and lung concentrations of alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor (alpha-1-antitrypsin or ATA). In severe forms, AATD is frequently associated with slowly progressive, moderate-to-severe panacinar emphysema. However, some patients with severe AATD may never develop clinically-evident emphysema. Of note, augmentation therapy with alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor (A1-PI) is indicated only in patients with congenital AATD who have clinically evident emphysema. The effect of alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor receipt on the frequency, duration, or severity of pulmonary exacerbations has not been demonstrated in randomized, controlled clinical trials. Findings from the RAPID/RAPID Extension program have confirmed the benefits of A1-PI therapy in slowing disease progression and provided evidence of a disease-modifying effect in patients with AATD; the study suggests that the early introduction of treatment may delay the time to death, lung transplantation, or crippling respiratory complaints in patients with emphysema related to severe AATD.

Pharmacokinetics

Alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor (A1-PI) products are administered intravenously, doses of 60 mg/kg weekly have been shown to increase plasma levels above the postulated protective threshold level (more than 11 micromolar). The maintenance of blood serum concentrations of antigenically measured alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) above 11 microMolar is hypothesized to provide therapeutically relevant anti-neutrophil elastase protection. Individuals with severe AAT-deficiency have been shown to have increased neutrophil and neutrophil elastase concentrations in lung epithelial lining fluid as compared to patients without this deficiency. Uncertainty exists regarding the appropriate therapeutic target serum concentration of AAT during augmentation therapy, as some emphysema patients with AAT-deficiency have baseline AAT concentrations above 11 microMolar. Patients with normal AAT levels (non-ATT deficient) typically have concentrations of AAT greater than 22 microMolar. After several weeks, the alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor concentrations and the alpha-1-proteinase; neutrophil elastase complexes in the epithelial lining fluid of the lower respiratory tract of the lung increase in AAT-deficient patients as compared with findings before drug receipt.
 
Affected Cytochrome P450 (P450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route


Prolastin: Receipt of Prolastin 60 mg/kg IV once weekly led to alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor concentrations above 80 mg/dL (11 microMolar) that were maintained during the average drug receipt duration of 24 weeks. As measured by an antigenic content assay, the mean trough Prolastin concentration was 16.7 +/- 2.7 microMolar. The mean trough steady-state serum antigenic alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor concentration was 19.1 microMolar (range, 14.7 to 23.1).
 
Prolastin-C: After weekly IV doses of 60 mg/kg of Prolastin-C, the mean maximum serum concentration was 1.79 mg/mL, and the half-life was 146.3 hours. Similar values were obtained for Prolastin: the mean maximum serum concentration was 1.84 mg/mL, and the half-life was 139.3 hours. As measured by an antigenic content assay, the mean trough Prolastin-C concentration was 16.9 +/- 2.3 microMolar. Bioequivalence has been established between Prolastin-C to Prolastin-C liquid in a pharmacokinetic study.
 
Aralast NP: After a single intravenous infusion of 60 mg/kg of Aralast NP, the maximum serum concentration was 1.6 +/- 0.3 mg/mL, and the half-life was 4.7 +/- 2.7 days. Receipt of weekly Aralast led to a gradual increase in peak and trough serum alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor concentrations; stabilization occurred after several weeks. Serum trough concentrations rose substantially in all patients; by week 3, most patients had trough concentrations that exceeded 11 micromolar. Concentrations remained above this threshold through 24 weeks with a few exceptions. NOTE: Aralast is no longer available, but the pharmacokinetic parameters of Aralast and Aralast NP are comparable.
 
Zemaira: After a single 60 mg/kg IV dose of Zemaira, the mean maximum serum concentration was 44.1 +/- 10.8 microMolar, and the terminal half-life was 5.1 +/- 2.4 days. Weekly repeated infusions led to serum alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor concentrations above 11 microMolar. The mean trough steady-state serum antigenic alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor concentration was 17.7 microMolar (range, 13.9 to 23.2)..
 
Glassia: After a single 60 mg/kg dose of Glassia, the terminal half-life was 111 +/- 33 hours. Serum alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor trough concentrations rose substantially in all patients by week 2 and were comparatively stable during weeks 7 to 12. The median trough alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor concentrations for weeks 7 to 12 were 14.5 microMolar (range, 11.6 to 18.5 microMolar) for antigenic and 11.8 microMolar (range, 8.2 to 16.9 microMolar) for functional alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor. Eleven of 33 patients had mean steady-state functional alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor concentrations below 11 microMolar.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Have epinephrine and other appropriate supportive therapy available for the treatment of any acute anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may occur during use. Monitor vital signs and observe the patient carefully throughout the infusion. If hypersensitivity symptoms occur, promptly stop the alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor infusion and begin appropriate therapy.


Intravenous Administration

Aralast NP
Reconstitution
Have lyophilized drug vial and diluent at room temperature before reconstitution.
The unreconstituted, lyophilized cake should be white or off-white to slightly yellow-green or yellow in color.
Remove the cover from one end of the transfer needle, and insert the needle into the diluent vial. Remove the cover at the other end of the transfer needle. Invert the diluent vial, and insert the attached needle into the product vial at an angle, so that the diluent will be directed against the wall of the product to minimize foaming. The vacuum in the product vial will draw the diluent into it. Remove the diluent vial and the transfer needle.
Let the vial stand until most of the content is in solution, then gently swirl the vial until the powder is completely dissolved. Do not shake the vial or invert it until ready to withdraw content. Reconstitution requires no more than 5 minutes for a 500 mg vial and no more than 10 minutes for a 1,000 mg vial. The reconstituted solution should be colorless to slightly yellow to yellowish-green. A few small, visible particles may remain and will be removed by the microaggregate filter.
Attach a syringe to the sterile 20 micron filter needle supplied with each vial. Add air to the product vial and withdraw the reconstituted product into the syringe. Remove the syringe from the filter needle and product vial.
Each single-use vial contains approximately 500 mg or 1,000 mg of functionally active alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor. If needed, the reconstituted solution from several vials may be pooled to achieve the calculated dose using a separate needle into an empty, sterile IV solution container; aseptic technique is needed.
Keep reconstituted solution at room temperature, and administer reconstituted solution within 3 hours.
Intravenous Infusion
Do not mix Aralast NP with any other agent or solution.
Infuse intravenously at a rate not exceeding 0.2 mL/kg/minute, and as determined by the response and comfort of the patient. Continuously monitor vital signs, and carefully observe the patient throughout the infusion. Immediately discontinue the infusion if anaphylactic or severe anaphylactoid reactions occur. If other adverse events occur, reduce the rate or interrupt the infusion until symptoms subside. The infusion may resume at a rate tolerated by the patient.
 
Glassia
Intravenous Infusion
Glassia should be administered by a healthcare professional or self-administered by the patient or caregiver after appropriate training. For self-administration, provide the patient/caregiver with detailed instructions and adequate training for infusion in the home or other appropriate setting.
Glassia is supplied in a ready-to-use solution that should be clear and colorless to yellow-green and may contain a few protein particles; do not use if cloudy. Do not mix with any other agent or solution.
Glassia is available in single-use vials containing approximately 1,000 mg/50 mL, 4,000 mg/200 mL, and 5,000 mg/250 mL of functionally active alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor.
The product is suitable for infusion directly from the vial or pooled into an empty, sterile container for intravenous infusion.
For infusion directly from the vial, use a vented spike adapter and attach an appropriate intravenous administration set. Peel clear plastic hanger from vial label. Hang on IV pole and administer product.
For pooling, use a vented spike to withdraw the solution from the vial and then use a needle to transfer the solution into the intravenous infusion container. Once the solution is pooled, attach an appropriate intravenous administration set to the intravenous container.
Ensure a 5 micron in-line filter is always used during the infusion.
Administer Glassia at room temperature and within 3 hours of entering a vial.
Using an appropriate intravenous administration set, administer Glassia at a rate not greater than 0.2 mL/kg/minute; the infusion will take approximately 15 minutes.
Continuously monitor the patient's vital signs throughout the infusion. If infusion-related reactions occur, reduce the rate or interrupt the infusion until the symptoms subside. The infusion may resume at a rate tolerated by the patient.
 
Prolastin
Reconstitution
Have lyophilized drug vial and diluent at room temperature before reconstitution.
Remove the plastic cover from the short end of the transfer needle and insert the needle into the diluent vial. Remove the cover at the other end of the transfer needle. Invert the diluent vial, and insert the attached needle into the product vial at a 45 degree angle, so that the diluent will be directed against the wall of the product to minimize foaming. The vacuum in the product vial will draw the diluent into it. Remove the diluent vial and the transfer needle.
Gently swirl the vial until the powder is completely dissolved.
Clean the top of the drug vial with alcohol and let it dry. Attach the supplied filter needle to a sterile syringe. Withdraw the Prolastin solution into the syringe through the filter needle. Replace the filter needle with an appropriate injection needle.
Each single-use vial contains approximately 500 mg or 1,000 mg of functionally active alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor. If needed, the reconstituted solution from several vials may be pooled into an empty, sterile IV solution container; aseptic technique is needed. Avoid pushing an IV administration spike set into the product container stopper, as this action may force the stopper into the vial with a resulting sterility loss.
Keep reconstituted solution at room temperature, and administer reconstituted solution within 3 hours.
Intravenous Infusion
Do not mix Prolastin with any other agent or solution.
Infuse intravenously at a rate of 0.08 mL/kg/minute or greater.
 
Prolastin-C
Reconstitution of lyophilized powder vials
Have lyophilized drug vial and diluent at room temperature before reconstitution.
Remove the plastic cover from the short end of the transfer needle and insert the needle into the diluent vial. Remove the cover at the other end of the transfer needle. Invert the diluent vial, and insert the attached needle into the product vial at a 45 degree angle, so that the diluent will be directed against the wall of the product to minimize foaming. The vacuum in the product vial will draw the diluent into it. Remove the diluent vial and the transfer needle.
Immediately after adding the diluent, vigorously swirl the vial for 10 to 15 seconds to thoroughly break up the cake; continuously swirl the vial until the powder is completely dissolved. Some foaming will occur and does not affect the product quality. A few small particles may remain after reconstitution and should be removed by passage through a sterile 15 micron filter, which is not supplied.
Each single-use vial contains approximately 1,000 mg of functionally active alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor. If needed, the reconstituted solution from several vials may be pooled into an empty, sterile IV solution container; aseptic technique is needed, and a sterile filter needle is provided for this purpose.
Keep reconstituted solution at room temperature, and administer reconstituted solution within 3 hours.
Intravenous Infusion
Do not mix the prepared Prolastin-C infusion with any other agent or solution.
Use a sterile 15 micron in-line filter when administering the product.
Infuse intravenously at a rate of approximately 0.08 mL/kg/minute, as determined by patient comfort and response. The recommended dosage of 60 mg/kg takes approximately 15 minutes to infuse.
 
Prolastin-C Liquid
Intravenous Infusion
Allow unopened vial of liquid to warm up to room temperature before administration.
Remove the plastic flip top from the vial.
Swab the exposed stopper surface with alcohol and allow to dry.
Prolastin-C Liquid is supplied in a ready-to-use solution. Inspect the liquid prior to pooling. The product may contain a few protein particles. The solution is clear, colorless or pale yellow or pale green. Do not use if the product is discolored or cloudy.
Each single-use vial contains approximately 1,000 mg of functionally active alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor.
Pool the liquid from several vials to achieve the intended mg/kg body weight dose into an empty, sterile intravenous solution container using aseptic technique.
Keep pooled solution at room temperature for administration within 3 hours.
Do not mix Prolastin-C Liquid with any other agent or solution.
Use a sterile 15 micron in-line filter when administering the product.
Infuse intravenously at a rate of approximately 0.08 mL/kg/minute, as determined by patient comfort and response. The recommended dosage of 60 mg/kg takes approximately 15 minutes to infuse.
 
Zemaira
Reconstitution
Have lyophilized drug vial and diluent at room temperature before reconstitution.
The transfer device is sterile: do not touch the exposed ends of the spike after removing the protective covers. Remove the protective cover from the white end of the transfer device, and insert the needle into the diluent vial. Remove the protective cover from the green end of the transfer device. Invert the diluent vial, and using minimum force, insert the green end of the transfer device into the drug vial. The flange of the transfer device should rest on the surface of the stopper, so that the diluent flows into the drug vial. The vacuum in the product vial will draw the diluent into it. Do not allow the air inlet filter to face downward. Remove the diluent vial and the transfer device. During diluent transfer, gently tilt the drug vial to wet the lyophilized cake.
Gently swirl the vial until the powder is completely dissolved. Do not shake the vial.
Each single-use vial contains approximately 1,000 mg of functionally active alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor. If needed, the reconstituted solution from several vials may be pooled into an empty, sterile IV solution container; aseptic technique is needed.
Keep reconstituted solution at room temperature, and administer reconstituted solution within 3 hours of reconstitution.
Intravenous Infusion
Do not mix Zemaira with any other agent or solution.
Use an intravenous administration set with a suitable 5 micron in-line infusion filter.
Infuse intravenously at a rate of approximately 0.08 mL/kg/minute, as determined by patient comfort and response. Closely monitor the infusion rate and the patient's clinical state during the infusion. Watch for signs of infusion-related reactions.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

60 mg/kg IV once weekly.

Geriatric

Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, small numbers of geriatric subjects have been included in clinical trials of the various products (see adult dosage).

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Aralast NP 0.5g Powder for Injection

Aralast NP 1g Powder for Injection

Glassia 1g/50ml Solution for Injection

Glassia 4g/200mL Solution for Injection

Glassia 5g/250mL Solution for Injection

PROLASTIN C 1000mg Liquid

Zemaira 1000mg Powder for Injection

Zemaira 4000mg Powder for Injection

Zemaira 5000mg Powder for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier