=== Asenapine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3507)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Asenapine is an atypical antipsychotic agent of the dibenzo-oxepino pyrrole chemical class.

Routes: oral, topical; Common adult doses: 20 mg/day SL tablet; 7.6 mg/24 hours transdermally.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, headache, insomnia, dental pain, dysgeusia, gastroesophageal reflux, hypersalivation, hypoesthesia, oral ulceration, paresthesias, anxiety, depression, irritability, suicidal ideation, akathisia, dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, pseudoparkinsonism, torticollis, tremor, arthralgia, elevated creatine kinase, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, appetite stimulation, dehydration, weight gain, hypercholesterolemia

In an Overdose: Prescribe asenapine in the smallest quantity consistent with good management in order to reduce the risk of overdose.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Asenapine, like other atypical antipsychotic agents, may cause metabolic changes.

ASENAPINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Saphris , SECUADO

Indication Specific Dosing

General Dosing Information
Based on the average exposure (AUC) of asenapine, transdermal asenapine 3.8 mg/24 hours corresponds to 5 mg twice daily of sublingual asenapine and transdermal asenapine 7.6 mg/24 hours corresponds to 10 mg twice daily of sublingual asenapine.


For the treatment of schizophrenia

Sublingual dosage
Adults


5 mg SL twice daily, initially. May increase the dose to 10 mg SL twice daily after 1 week based on clinical response and tolerability; however, there was no suggestion of added benefit and a clear increase in certain adverse reactions at the higher dose in short-term clinical trials. Max: 20 mg/day. Periodically assess the need for continued treatment; use the lowest effective dose.


Transdermal dosage
Adults


3.8 mg/24 hours transdermally once daily. May increase the dose to 5.7 mg/24 hours or 7.6 mg/24 hours once daily after 1 week based on clinical response and tolerability. However, there was no suggestion of added benefit at a dosage of 7.6 mg/24 hours, on average, but there was an increase in certain adverse reactions in a short-term clinical trial. Periodically assess the need for continued treatment; use the lowest effective dose.


For the treatment of bipolar disorder (bipolar I disorder), including mania or mixed episodes

Sublingual dosage (monotherapy)
Adults


5 to 10 mg sublingually twice daily. Adjust dose based on clinical response and tolerability.


Children and Adolescents 10 to 17 years


2.5 mg sublingually twice daily for 3 days, then 5 mg sublingually twice daily for 3 days, and then 10 mg sublingually twice daily. Adjust dose based on clinical response and tolerability.


Sublingual dosage (adjunctive therapy)
Adults


5 mg sublingually twice daily, initially, when administered with either lithium or valproate. Adjust dose based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 10 mg PO twice daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

diabetes mellitus, obesity


Asenapine, like other atypical antipsychotic agents, may cause metabolic changes. Metabolic changes are of particular concern in patients with pre-existing risk factors, such as diabetes mellitus and/or obesity. Increased blood sugar, worsening or new-onset diabetes, dyslipidemia, and weight gain may occur during therapy. While all medications in the atypical antipsychotic class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Metabolic changes may increase cardiovascular or cerebrovascular risk over time. Hyperglycemia, sometimes associated with diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar coma, or death, has been reported in people treated with atypical antipsychotics. Monitor weight and for symptoms of hyperglycemia. Regularly monitor patients with established diabetes mellitus for changes in weight and worsening of glucose control during atypical antipsychotic treatment. In those with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes), perform fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment. In patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment, order fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the antipsychotic is discontinued. However, some patients require continuation of antidiabetic agents despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. When treating pediatric patients, weight gain should be assessed against the expected normal growth rate.


hyperlipidemia


Asenapine, like other atypical antipsychotic agents, may cause metabolic changes. Metabolic changes are of particular concern in those with pre-existing risk factors, such as hyperlipidemia (e.g., hypercholesterolemia or hypertriglyceridemia). While all medications in the atypical antipsychotic class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Dyslipidemia (increased cholesterol and/or triglycerides) may occur during therapy. Metabolic changes may increase cardiovascular or cerebrovascular risk over time. Clinical monitoring of serum lipid profiles is recommended during asenapine treatment. Inform all patients of the importance of physical activity and maintaining a nutritionally balanced diet during treatment.


cardiovascular disease, hypovolemia


Asenapine should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., history of myocardial infarction or ischemic heart disease, heart failure or conduction abnormalities) or conditions which would predispose patients to hypotension (dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Asenapine can cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, particularly at initiation of treatment or dose increases; risks may also be increased in patients with underlying risk factors. Orthostatic hypotension from antipsychotic use may lead to falls with the potential for fractures and other injuries; a fall risk assessment should be completed and reassessed as needed in patients with conditions, diseases, or concurrent medication use that could exacerbate orthostasis.


bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation


Avoid use of asenapine in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. . Additionally, avoid asenapine use in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Antipsychotics, including asenapine, may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. For people with diseases, conditions, or medications that could exacerbate these effects, complete fall risk assessments when initiating antipsychotic treatment and periodically during long-term antipsychotic therapy. Asenapine may have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills; advise patients about driving or operating machinery or other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they are reasonably certain that asenapine does not affect them adversely. Given the primary CNS effects of asenapine, use caution during coadministration with other CNS depressants and alcohol. Ethanol ingestion may further impair cognitive and motor skills and patients should be advised to avoid use of alcoholic beverages when taking asenapine.


Parkinson disease


Avoid use of asenapine in people with Parkinson disease unless the benefit clearly outweighs the risk of worsening of motor symptoms. Atypical antipsychotics can worsen the motor symptoms of Parkinson disease and can also lead to the development of extrapyramidal symptoms.


leukopenia


Use asenapine with caution in people with leukopenia. Hematologic effects including leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis have been associated with antipsychotic use. A history of drug-induced leukopenia or neutropenia or preexisting low white blood cell (WBC) count may increase the likelihood of recurrence during treatment with an antipsychotic medication. Patients with a history of clinically significant low WBC count or drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have frequent complete blood count (CBC) assessments during the first few months of treatment. Consider discontinuation of the antipsychotic if a clinically significant decline in WBC occurs in the absence of an identifiable cause. Monitor patients with clinically significant neutropenia closely for fever and infection; institute appropriate medical intervention if necessary. Asenapine should be discontinued in patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count less than 1,000/mm3), with ongoing medical care until the symptoms resolve.


seizures


As with other antipsychotic drugs, asenapine should be used with caution in patients with a history of seizures, a seizure disorder, or with conditions that may lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in a population of 65 years or older.


conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature


Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Patients receiving asenapine should be advised of conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature (e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration).


Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Asenapine is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. Asenapine exposure is an average of 7-fold higher in patients with severe hepatic impairment versus those with normal hepatic function. No dosage adjustments are required in those with mild to moderate hepatic disease (Child-Pugh class A and B) because asenapine exposure is similar to that in subjects with normal hepatic function.


dementia with psychotic disturbance, geriatric


Antipsychotics, including asenapine, pose a risk of increased mortality when used for dementia with psychotic disturbance in geriatric adults. Most of the deaths are cardiovascular (e.g., heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (e.g., pneumonia) in nature. A higher incidence of stroke and transient ischemic attack, including fatal stroke, has also been reported. Initiate asenapine at the lower end of the dosage range and titrate carefully in the older adult. The Beers Criteria label antipsychotics as potentially inappropriate medications for geriatric adults, except for specific indications like agitation in Alzheimer disease, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder adjunct therapy, Parkinson disease psychosis, or short-term use as part of an antiemetic regimen during chemotherapy. Avoid use in delirium, dementia, or non-psychotic Parkinson disease. Reserve antipsychotic use for when non-pharmacologic strategies have failed, are not possible, or the patient poses a danger to self or others. Due to the potential for hyponatremia and SIADH, monitor sodium levels. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates antipsychotic use in long-term care facilities and requires documented clinical justification. Taper antipsychotics unless clinically contraindicated, following guidelines for indications, dosages, and duration. OBRA limits "as needed" use to 14 days in long-term care facilities, with ongoing use requiring evaluation by the prescriber.


dysphagia, increased risk for aspiration


People with dysphagia who are at increased risk for aspiration should be closely monitored while receiving asenapine. Antipsychotic use, including asenapine, has been associated with esophageal dysmotility and aspiration of gastric contents. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in older adults, in particular those with advanced Alzheimer disease.


breast cancer, increased risk for breast cancer


Asenapine can cause hyperprolactinemia due to central dopamine D2 receptor antagonism; prolactin elevations can persist during chronic administration. In animal studies, an increase in pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasias has been observed during administration of some antipsychotics. Although the clinical significance of these findings is unknown, some human breast cancers may be prolactin-dependent; therefore, asenapine should be used cautiously in those who have breast cancer or an increased risk for breast cancer, such as those with genetic markers or a personal or family history. Published epidemiologic studies have shown inconsistent results when exploring the potential association between hyperprolactinemia and breast cancer.


phenylketonuria


Asenapine sublingual tablets contain aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. Before prescribing asenapine sublingual tablets in a patient with phenylketonuria, consider the combined daily amount of phenylalanine from all sources, including these sublingual tablets.


pregnancy


Controlled studies have not been conducted with asenapine in human pregnancy and there are no available human data to sufficiently inform regarding drug-associated risks. Pregnant individuals should be advised of the potential risks to the fetus. Teratogenicity was not observed in animal studies. However, animal data is not always predictive of human response. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to asenapine; information about the registry can be obtained at womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-and-research-programs/pregnancyregistry or by calling 1866-961-2388. It is not known if antipsychotics, through their effect on prolactin, would affect labor or obstetric delivery.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Consider pregnancy testing in people who may become pregnant prior to initiation of an antipsychotic, as there are limited controlled data regarding use of these agents during gestation. Ideally, health care providers should use pre-conceptual planning to help such individuals taking atypical antipsychotics balance the risk for illness relapse with the potential risk of continuing medication while pregnant.  Counsel patients about the reproductive risk associated with asenapine. Asenapine can cause hyperprolactinemia as a result of central dopamine D2 receptor antagonism, which may suppress hypothalamic GnRH and can result in reduced pituitary gonadotropin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both females and males. Elevations in prolactin may lead to a reversible reduction in fertility in people who may become pregnant and impairment of gonadal steroidogenesis may also be of concern in people who can cause pregnancy in others. Hyperprolactinemia can also cause other endocrine abnormalities in both adult and pediatric populations. Close monitoring for adverse endocrine effects is advisable during asenapine use.


breast-feeding


Use asenapine with caution during breast-feeding. When considering the use of asenapine during breast-feeding, assess the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated maternal condition. Lactation studies have not been conducted to assess the presence of asenapine in human milk, the effects of asenapine on the breastfed infant, or the effects of asenapine on milk production. Asenapine is excreted into the milk of rats during lactation. In addition, antipsychotics may cause elevated prolactin levels and galactorrhea to varying degrees, and thus may interfere with proper lactation. Due to individual variability in response to antipsychotics, it may be prudent to continue the existing regimen if ongoing treatment is deemed necessary during breast-feeding. However, because there is a lack of experience with asenapine during breast-feeding, other agents may be preferred, especially while breast-feeding a newborn or preterm infant. Alternate medications for consideration include atypical agents such as olanzapine or quetiapine. Data related to the safety of antipsychotics during breast-feeding are limited. Regardless of the antipsychotic used, the breastfed infant should be closely monitored for excessive drowsiness, lethargy, and developmental delays. Combination treatment with antipsychotics may increase the risk of these adverse events.


neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. Studies have not been conducted with asenapine; however, there have been reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress and feeding disorders in neonates exposed to other antipsychotics. These complications have varied in severity and have ranged from self-limited to those requiring intensive care unit support and prolonged hospitalization. Neonates exhibiting signs or symptoms of extrapyramidal effects or withdrawal should be carefully monitored. The knowledge about long-term neurobehavioral effects in offspring is limited for all antipsychotic agents and requires further investigation.


adolescents, children, infants, neonates


The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes asenapine as a potentially inappropriate medication for use in neonates, infants, children, and adolescents and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use asenapine with caution and appropriate monitoring.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Controlled studies have not been conducted with asenapine in human pregnancy and there are no available human data to sufficiently inform regarding drug-associated risks. Pregnant individuals should be advised of the potential risks to the fetus. Teratogenicity was not observed in animal studies. However, animal data is not always predictive of human response. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to asenapine; information about the registry can be obtained at womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-and-research-programs/pregnancyregistry or by calling 1866-961-2388. It is not known if antipsychotics, through their effect on prolactin, would affect labor or obstetric delivery.


Interactions

Acarbose: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of acebutolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the acebutolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as alfuzosin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. The manufacturer warns that the QT effect of alfuzosin should be considered prior to administering the drug to patients taking other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Ambrisentan: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Amifampridine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Avoid coadministration of amisulpride and asenapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of asenapine and tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided if possible. Asenapine has been associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, and tricyclics at elevated serum concentrations may produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval. In addition, there is a potential for other interactions, such as augmentation of CNS impairment or orthostatic hypotension. Further, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of asenapine. Inhibitors of these isoenzymes such as imipramine may decrease the elimination of asenapine. During co-administration of a single 75 mg dose of imipramine and a single 5 mg dose of asenapine, the Cmax of asenapine was increased by 17% and the AUC was increased by 10%. No asenapine dose adjustments are required during combined use.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Use caution during co-administration of amoxapine and asenapine. Amoxapine exhibits some antipsychotic activity and may increase the risk of tardive dyskinesia or neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) when antipsychotics are given concurrently. CNS effects, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, and lowering of seizure threshold are potential problems with the combined use of amoxapine and antipsychotics.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Anagrelide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include asenapine.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Apomorphine: (Major) Avoid use of apomorphine and asenapine together if possible due to a risk for additive QT prolongation and sedation. Also, apomorphine and asenapine can reduce the effectiveness of each other through opposing effects on dopamine. Addtive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to cause QT prolongation, such as apomorphine. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent if coadministration cannot be avoided.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if asenapine and a multi-day regimen of oral aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in asenapine-related adverse effects for several days after administration. Asenapine is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of asenapine. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and asenapine. If use is necessary, patients who are receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus asenapine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other aripiprazole-related adverse effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; asenapine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Both medications have been associated with QT prolongation and TdP. Both antipsychotic medications may affect coordination, reaction time, or judgment.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) If possible, drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval, such as asenapine, should be discontinued prior to initiating arsenic trioxide therapy. QT prolongation should be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and complete atrioventricular block have been reported. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and should be avoided. Consider ECG monitoring if asenapine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when atazanavir is administered with asenapine as there is a potential for increased aspenapine concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4. Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. In addition, asenapine is substrate for uridine glucoronyltransferase (UGT); atazanavir is a UGT1A1 inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when atazanavir is administered with asenapine as there is a potential for increased aspenapine concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4. Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. In addition, asenapine is substrate for uridine glucoronyltransferase (UGT); atazanavir is a UGT1A1 inhibitor. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with asenapine as there is a potential for increased aspenapine concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of atenolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the atenolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known. (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of atenolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the atenolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of asenapine and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including opiate agonists.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with asenapine due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concurrent use of asenapine and bedaquiline should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of betaxolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the betaxolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of bisoprolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the bisoprolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known. (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of bisoprolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the bisoprolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of brexpiprazole with other antipsychotics such as asenapine. The risk of drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may be increased during combined use; therefore, it may be advisable to initiate treatment with lower dosages if combination therapy is deemed necessary.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of timolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the timolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in bromocriptine efficacy if concomitant use with an atypical antipsychotic is necessary. Bromocriptine is a dopamine D2 receptor agonist and atypical antipsychotics are dopamine receptor antagonists.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Buprenorphine should be avoided in combination with asenapine. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Buprenorphine has also been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). The manufacturer of asenapine recommends avoiding coadministration with with other agents also known to prolong the QT interval. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. If these drugs are used together, consider the potential for additive effects on the QT interval.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Buprenorphine should be avoided in combination with asenapine. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Buprenorphine has also been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). The manufacturer of asenapine recommends avoiding coadministration with with other agents also known to prolong the QT interval. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. If these drugs are used together, consider the potential for additive effects on the QT interval.
buPROPion: (Major) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Extreme caution is recommended during concurrent use of other drugs that may lower the seizure threshold such as antipsychotics. The manufacturer of bupropion recommends low initial dosing and slow dosage titration if this combination must be used; the patient should be closely monitored.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Extreme caution is recommended during concurrent use of other drugs that may lower the seizure threshold such as antipsychotics. The manufacturer of bupropion recommends low initial dosing and slow dosage titration if this combination must be used; the patient should be closely monitored.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and buspirone use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with butorphanol.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should not be coadministered with asenapine due to mutually antagonistic effects on dopaminergic function. The dopamine antagonist action of asenapine may diminish the prolactin-lowering ability of cabergoline while the dopamine agonist effects of cabergoline may exacerbate a psychotic disorder, reducing the effectiveness of antipsychotics such as asenapine.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as asenapine.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and asenapine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Captopril: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause significant CNS effects such as drowsiness and dizziness, such as carbamazepine, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Carbamazepine has been tested and has been found to have no clinically significant pharmacokinetic interaction with asenapine; no dosage adjustment is necessary based on pharmacokinetics.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) The risk of adverse effects may be increased during concurrent use of cariprazine with other antipsychotics, such as asenapine. Similar to other antipsychotics, cariprazine administration has been associated with drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. The incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, but the risk appears to be increased.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of carteolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the carteolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of carvedilol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the carvedilol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tramadol with asenapine may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and increased risk of seizure. Limit the use of tramadol with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and seizures.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and asenapine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine with ceritinib due to the risk of QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has also been reported with ceritinib treatment.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Cetrorelix: (Moderate) Antipsychotic-induced hyperprolactinemia results in down-regulation of the number of pituitary GnRH receptors and may interfere with the response to any of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogs including cetrorelix.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of asenapine and tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided if possible. Asenapine has been associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, and tricyclics at elevated serum concentrations may produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval. In addition, there is a potential for other interactions, such as augmentation of CNS impairment or orthostatic hypotension. Further, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of asenapine. Inhibitors of these isoenzymes such as imipramine may decrease the elimination of asenapine. During co-administration of a single 75 mg dose of imipramine and a single 5 mg dose of asenapine, the Cmax of asenapine was increased by 17% and the AUC was increased by 10%. No asenapine dose adjustments are required during combined use. (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with asenapine due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and should be avoided in combination with asenapine. Coadministration of asenapine with phenothiazines, loxapine, thiothixene, molindone, pimozide, haloperidol, or other atypical agents (e.g., aripiprazole, lurasidone, and others) may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should not be used with other agents also known to have this effect. Ciprofloxacin is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes; therefore, caution is advised during combination therapy. In addition, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 is a primary metabolic pathway of asenapine. In theory, inhibitors of this isoenzyme such as ciprofloxacin may decrease the elimination of asenapine.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), asenapine use is contraindicated with cisapride. Cisapride has a known risk for QT prolongation and is contraindicated for use with other drugs that may cause QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Concurrent use of asenapine and citalopram should be avoided if possible. Citalopram causes dose-dependent QT interval prolongation and asenapine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). According to the manufacturer of citalopram, concurrent use of citalopram with other drugs that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. However, if concurrent therapy is considered essential, ECG monitoring is recommended. In addition, citalopram is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6, and increased plasma concentrations of antipsychotics partially metabolized via CYP2D6, such as asenapine, may occur. Decreased metabolism of asenapine may lead to adverse reactions such as extrapyramidal symptoms; however, because asenapine is metabolized by multiple CYP pathways, a clinically significant interaction is less likely to occur.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Clemastine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, should be combined cautiously with atypical antipsychotics because of the potential for additive CNS depressant effects. Antipsychotics may also lower the seizure threshold, which might effect the efficacy of clobazam to treat seizures. Clobazam is a weak inducer of CYP3A4 and may reduce the efficacy of atypical antipsychotics that are significantly metabolized by CYP3A4; consult the atypical antipsychotic product labeling for clinical relevance.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of asenapine and tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided if possible. Asenapine has been associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, and tricyclics at elevated serum concentrations may produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval. In addition, there is a potential for other interactions, such as augmentation of CNS impairment or orthostatic hypotension. Further, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of asenapine. Inhibitors of these isoenzymes such as imipramine may decrease the elimination of asenapine. During co-administration of a single 75 mg dose of imipramine and a single 5 mg dose of asenapine, the Cmax of asenapine was increased by 17% and the AUC was increased by 10%. No asenapine dose adjustments are required during combined use.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
cloZAPine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as clozapine. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Coadministration of asenapine with clozapine may also increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with asenapine as there is a potential for increased aspenapine concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and potential for serious arrhythmias, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other drugs having an association with QT prolongation. Co-administration of promethazine and antipsychotics may also increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from these combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and potential for serious arrhythmias, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other drugs having an association with QT prolongation. Co-administration of promethazine and antipsychotics may also increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from these combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with asenapine due to the risk of QT prolongation. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with asenapine as there is a potential for increased aspenapine concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with asenapine as there is a potential for increased aspenapine concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with asenapine as there is a potential for increased aspenapine concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with asenapine as there is a potential for increased aspenapine concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with asenapine as there is a potential for increased aspenapine concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dasatinib and asenapine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Degarelix: (Major) Avoid using asenapine in combination with degarelix due to the potential for QT prolongation; coadministration may also reduce the efficacy of degarelix. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Asenapine can also cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Desflurane: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should not be used with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., halogenated anesthetics). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of asenapine and tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided if possible. Asenapine has been associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, and tricyclics at elevated serum concentrations may produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval. In addition, there is a potential for other interactions, such as augmentation of CNS impairment or orthostatic hypotension. Further, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of asenapine. Inhibitors of these isoenzymes such as imipramine may decrease the elimination of asenapine. During co-administration of a single 75 mg dose of imipramine and a single 5 mg dose of asenapine, the Cmax of asenapine was increased by 17% and the AUC was increased by 10%. No asenapine dose adjustments are required during combined use.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid using asenapine in combination with deutetrabenazine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. Also, deutetrabenazine is a reversible, dopamine depleting drug and asenapine is a dopamine antagonist. The risk for parkinsonism, neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS), and akathisia may be increased with concomitant administration. Concurrent use may also result in additive CNS depression.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) Bupropion is associated with a dose-related risk of seizures. Extreme caution is recommended during concurrent use of other drugs that may lower the seizure threshold such as antipsychotics. The manufacturer of bupropion recommends low initial dosing and slow dosage titration if this combination must be used; the patient should be closely monitored.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including opiate agonists.
Disopyramide: (Major) Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as disopyramide.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and asenapine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as asenapine.
Donepezil: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil include asenapine.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil include asenapine.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of timolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the timolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Concurrent use of asenapine and tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided if possible. Asenapine has been associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, and tricyclics at elevated serum concentrations may produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval. In addition, there is a potential for other interactions, such as augmentation of CNS impairment or orthostatic hypotension. Further, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of asenapine. Inhibitors of these isoenzymes such as imipramine may decrease the elimination of asenapine. During co-administration of a single 75 mg dose of imipramine and a single 5 mg dose of asenapine, the Cmax of asenapine was increased by 17% and the AUC was increased by 10%. No asenapine dose adjustments are required during combined use.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression such as dronabinol, if used concomitantly with atypical antipsychotics, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and asenapine is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce Torsade de Pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving other agents that may prolong the QT interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with droperidol include asenapine.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Duloxetine is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 and may decrease the clearance of atypical antipsychotics that are CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 substrates including asenapine. Decreased metabolism of asenapine may lead to adverse reactions such as extrapyramidal symptoms. In addition, asenapine is associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and should be used cautiously with CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 inhibitors such as duloxetine. In vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 is a primary metabolic pathway of asenapine.
Efavirenz: (Major) According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents known to cause QT prolongation, such as efavirenz. Both asenapine and efavirenz have been associated with QT prolongation.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents known to cause QT prolongation, such as efavirenz. Both asenapine and efavirenz have been associated with QT prolongation.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents known to cause QT prolongation, such as efavirenz. Both asenapine and efavirenz have been associated with QT prolongation.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering asenapine with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated asenapine plasma concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine and eliglustat. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Asenapine increases the QT interval and should be not administered with other drugs that increase the QT interval.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with asenapine as there is a potential for increased aspenapine concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with asenapine as there is a potential for increased aspenapine concentrations. Asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as asenapine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as asenapine.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased asenapine-related adverse effects, such as extrapyramidal symptoms and QT prolongation, if concomitant use of enasidenib is necessary; dosage reduction of asenapine may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of asenapine. Asenapine is a CYP1A2 substrate and enasidenib is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and asenapine due to QT prolongation. Encorafenib is associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with asenapine due to the risk of QT prolongation. Both entrectinib and asenapine have been associated with QT prolongation.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
eriBULin: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) that should be avoided in combination with asenapine include eribulin. If coadministration is necessary, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of asenapine and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Major) Escitalopram has been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration with other drugs that have a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as asenapine, should be done with caution and close monitoring. In addition, escitalopram is a modest inhibitor of CYP2D6 and may decrease the clearance of atypical antipsychotics that are CYP2D6 substrates including asenapine. Decreased metabolism of these CYP2D6 substrates may lead to clinically important adverse reactions that are associated with antipsychotic use, such as extrapyramidal symptoms.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and asenapine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of esmolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the esmolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone should be considered during co-administration of other CNS depressants, such as antipsychotics, to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. Antipsychotics with a higher incidence of sedation, such as olanzapine, clozapine, quetiapine, lurasidone, chlorpromazine, and thioridazine, are more likely to interact with eszopiclone. In one evaluation, concurrent use of eszopiclone and olanzapine reduced psychomotor function as measured by the Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST).
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure. The frequency of seizure activity with asenapine was low during clinical trials; however, seizures have been associated with other antipsychotics and caution is advised.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and asenapine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Major) Asenapine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, overnight monitoring with continuous ECG in a medical facility after the first fingolimod dose is advised for patients taking QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsades de pointes. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of torsades de pointes in patients with bradycardia. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval.
Flecainide: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should not be used with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., flecainide). Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsades de pointes (TdP); flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs which have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of life-threatening arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP), coadministration of fluconazole with drugs that both prolong the QT interval and are CYP3A4 substrates, such as asenapine, is contraindicated. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of TdP. Additonally, fluconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration may result in elevated plasma concentrations of asenapine, causing an increased risk for adverse events such as QT prolongation.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of asenapine and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., fluphenazine). Fluphenazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Coadministration of asenapine with phenothiazines may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of fluvoxamine and asenapine. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have these effects. In addition, fluvoxamine is a potent inhibitor of CYP1A2 and a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and asenapine is a primary substrate of CYP1A2 with a lesser contribution by CYP3A4. Coadministration may result in increased asenapine exposure. In one trial, coadministration of fluvoxamine 25 mg twice daily resulted in a marginal increase in asenapine exposure; full therapeutic doses of fluvoxamine would be expected to further increase asenapine exposure.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as asenapine. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid using asenapine in combination with fostemsavir due to the potential for QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of asenapine and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Ganirelix: (Moderate) Antipsychotic-induced hyperprolactinemia results in down-regulation of the number of pituitary GnRH receptors and may interfere with the response to ganirelix, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analog.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gemtuzumab ozogamicin with asenapine due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of asenapine with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with asenapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Goserelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of goserelin with asenapine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of goserelin as well as the risk of QT prolongation. Asenapine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; goserelin is a GnRH analog. Additionally, asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as granisetron. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, the use of granisetron in patients concurrently treated with drugs known to prolong the QT interval (e.g., asenapine) and/or are arrhythmogenic, may result in clinical consequences.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should not be used with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., halogenated anesthetics). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should not be used with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., haloperidol).
Histrelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of histrelin with asenapine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of histrelin as well as the risk of QT prolongation. Asenapine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; histrelin is a GnRH analog. Additionally, asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking asenapine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of hydroxyzine and asenapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Additive CNS depression may also occur. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Postmarketing data indicate that hydroxyzine causes QT prolongation and TdP.
Ibutilide: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with asenapine, a CYP3A substrate, as asenapine toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Iloperidone: (Major) Asenapine and iloperidone have been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturers, the drugs should not be used with other agents also known to have this effect. In addition, Co-administration of asenapine with iloperidone may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of asenapine and tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided if possible. Asenapine has been associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, and tricyclics at elevated serum concentrations may produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval. In addition, there is a potential for other interactions, such as augmentation of CNS impairment or orthostatic hypotension. Further, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of asenapine. Inhibitors of these isoenzymes such as imipramine may decrease the elimination of asenapine. During co-administration of a single 75 mg dose of imipramine and a single 5 mg dose of asenapine, the Cmax of asenapine was increased by 17% and the AUC was increased by 10%. No asenapine dose adjustments are required during combined use.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with asenapine due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Both inotuzumab and asenapine have been associated with QT prolongation.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Iodixanol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure. The frequency of seizure activity with asenapine was low during clinical trials; however, seizures have been associated with other antipsychotics and caution is advised.
Iohexol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure. The frequency of seizure activity with asenapine was low during clinical trials; however, seizures have been associated with other antipsychotics and caution is advised.
Iomeprol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure. The frequency of seizure activity with asenapine was low during clinical trials; however, seizures have been associated with other antipsychotics and caution is advised.
Iopamidol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure. The frequency of seizure activity with asenapine was low during clinical trials; however, seizures have been associated with other antipsychotics and caution is advised.
Iopromide: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure. The frequency of seizure activity with asenapine was low during clinical trials; however, seizures have been associated with other antipsychotics and caution is advised.
Ioversol: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure. The frequency of seizure activity with asenapine was low during clinical trials; however, seizures have been associated with other antipsychotics and caution is advised.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with asenapine may result in increased serum concentrations of asenapine. Asenapine is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and asenapine due to the risk for additive hypotension and CNS depression.
Isoflurane: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should not be used with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., halogenated anesthetics). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure. The frequency of seizure activity with asenapine was low during clinical trials; however, seizures have been associated with other antipsychotics and caution is advised.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine and itraconazole due to the potential for additive effects on the QT interval; increased exposure to asenapine is also possible. Both asenapine and itraconazole are associated with QT prolongation; coadministration may increase this risk. In addition, coadministration of itraconazole (a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor) with asenapine (a CYP3A4 substrate) may result in elevated asenapine plasma concentrations and an increased risk for adverse events, including QT prolongation. If itraconazole therapy is stopped, it may be prudent to continue close monitoring for up to 2 weeks after discontinuing itraconazole. Once discontinued, the plasma concentration of itraconazole decreases to almost undetectable concentrations within 7 to 14 days. The decline in plasma concentrations may be even more gradual in patients with hepatic cirrhosis or who are receiving concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with asenapine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and asenapine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of labetalol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the labetalol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine with lapatinib due to the risk of QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in post-marketing experience with lapatinib.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and asenapine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with asenapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, ECG monitoring is recommended during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with asenapine due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Leuprolide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of leuprolide with asenapine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of leuprolide as well as the risk of QT prolongation. Asenapine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; leuprolide is a GnRH analog. Additionally, asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and asenapine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Lithium: (Major) Some atypical antipsychotics, including asenapine, are indicated as adjunctive therapy to mood stabilizers such as lithium. Because both asenapine and lithium have been associated with QT prolongation, they should be combined cautiously and with close monitoring. It is also advisable to monitor patients for neurotoxicity during co-administration. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) has been observed occasionally during concurrent use of lithium and either atypical or conventional antipsychotics. Additive extrapyramidal effects have also been noted. Early case reports described an encephalopathic syndrome consisting of delirium, tremulousness, dyskinesia, seizures, leukocytosis, weakness, hyperpyrexia, confusion, extrapyramidal symptoms, elevations in laboratory values (e.g., liver function tests, blood urea nitrogen, fasting blood sugar) and, in some cases, irreversible brain damage, during use of lithium and conventional antipsychotics, particularly haloperidol. Subsequent rare reports of NMS or NMS-like reactions have been described during co-administration of lithium and atypical antipsychotics (e.g., risperidone, olanzapine, clozapine). Following resolution of NMS, there are isolated instances of re-emergence of symptoms following re-initiation of lithium as monotherapy. Lithium may be a risk factor for antipsychotic-induced NMS; however, this hypothesis has not been confirmed. In many reported cases, confounding factors have been present (e.g., previous history of NMS, high dose therapy). The ability of antipsychotics alone to precipitate NMS and the rarity of the condition further complicate assessment of lithium as a risk factor. Asenapine does not have an effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of lithium.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitoring the ECG is recommended if lofexidine and asenapine are used together due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. In addition, torsade de pointes (TdP) has occurred during postmarketing use of lofexidine. Also monitor for additive orthostatic hypotension and sedation if coadministration is required.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with asenapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Losartan: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Loxapine: (Major) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of loxapine and other antipsychotics. Loxapine use has been associated with adverse events such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and seizures. These effects may be potentiated during concurrent use of loxapine and other antipsychotics. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Coadministration of antipsychotics, such as lumateperone and asenapine, may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from antipsychotic combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone.
Lurasidone: (Major) Similar to other antipsychotics, lurasidone administration has been associated with drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and seizures. The risk of these adverse effects may be increased during concurrent use of lurasidone with other antipsychotics. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as asenapine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Asenapine has been also associated with QT prolongation.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Mefloquine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., mefloquine). There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. However, due to the lack of clinical data, mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Methadone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine and methadone due to an additive risk of QT prolongation. Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may also cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Methadone is associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Metoclopramide: (Contraindicated) Avoid metoclopramide in patients receiving atypical antipsychotics. There is a potential for additive effects, including increased frequency and severity of tardive dyskinesia (TD), other extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), and neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Some manufacturer labels for metoclopramide contraindicate the use of these drugs together, while others state avoidance is necessary. If these agents must be used together, monitor closely for movement disorders and additive CNS effects. There also may be additive sedation. Discontinue these medications at the first signs of dyskinesia.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of metoprolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the metoprolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known. (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of metoprolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the metoprolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and asenapine; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mifepristone and asenapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Mirabegron is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 isoenzymes such as asenapine may be increased when co-administered with mirabegron. Asenapine has been shown to be a CYP2D6 substrate in vitro. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and asenapine are used concomitantly. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and asenapine is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro. Coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of asenapine; however, no dosage adjustment of asenapine is necessary.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Molindone: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia), extrapyramidal effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may occur. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and asenapine due to the risk for additive hypotension and CNS depression.
Morphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concurrent use of asenapine and moxifloxacin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Moxifloxacin has also been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Additionally, post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including TdP, usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of nadolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the nadolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Nafarelin: (Moderate) Antipsychotics may cause hyperprolactinemia and should not be administered concomitantly with nafarelin since hyperprolactinemia down-regulates the number of pituitary GnRH receptors.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and nalbuphine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect of nebivolol if coadministered with asenapine. Nebivolol is metabolized by CYP2D6. Although data are lacking, CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as asenapine, could potentially increase nebivolol plasma concentrations via CYP2D6 inhibition; the clinical significance of this potential interaction is unknown, but an increase in adverse effects is possible. In addition, secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of nebivolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the nebivolol dosage may need to be adjusted. Patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Nilotinib: (Major) Coadministration of nilotinib and a drug that prolongs the QT interval, such as asenapine, is not advised; nilotinib prolongs the QT interval. Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib with other agents that prolong the QT interval, such as asenapine. Additionally, nilotinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and asenapine is a substrate of CYP3A4; administering these drugs together may result in increased asenapine levels. If the use of asenapine is necessary, hold nilotinib therapy. If these drugs are used together, consider an asenapine dose reduction and monitor patients for toxicity (e.g., QT interval prolongation).
niMODipine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Use of medications that lower the seizure threshold should be carefully evaluated when considering intrathecal radiopaque contrast agents. Antipsychotics should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours post-procedure. The frequency of seizure activity with asenapine was low during clinical trials; however, seizures have been associated with other antipsychotics and caution is advised.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of asenapine and tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided if possible. Asenapine has been associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, and tricyclics at elevated serum concentrations may produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval. In addition, there is a potential for other interactions, such as augmentation of CNS impairment or orthostatic hypotension. Further, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of asenapine. Inhibitors of these isoenzymes such as imipramine may decrease the elimination of asenapine. During co-administration of a single 75 mg dose of imipramine and a single 5 mg dose of asenapine, the Cmax of asenapine was increased by 17% and the AUC was increased by 10%. No asenapine dose adjustments are required during combined use.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., olanzapine). Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. In addition, co-administration of olanzapine with asenapine may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., olanzapine). Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. In addition, co-administration of olanzapine with asenapine may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone. (Major) Concomitant use of asenapine and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., olanzapine). Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. In addition, co-administration of olanzapine with asenapine may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of oliceridine with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Opicapone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Asenapine is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of asenapine may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat and asenapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) The manufacturer of asenapine recommends avoiding coadministration with other agents known to prolong the QT interval, such as osimertinib. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk of QT prolongation.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine and oxaliplatin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Both asenapine and oxaliplatin have been associated with QT prolongation. Ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in post-marketing experience.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking asenapine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as asenapine. However, if coadministration is necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential. In addition, the use of paliperidone with asenapine may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures.
Panobinostat: (Major) QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with panobinostat include asenapine.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paroxetine-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with asenapine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase paroxetine exposure. Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and asenapine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Pasireotide: (Major) Coadministration of asenapine and pasireotide may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of pazopanib and other drugs that prolong the QT interval is not advised; pazopanib and asenapine have been reported to prolong the QT interval. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. If pazopanib and asenapine must be continued, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. In addition, pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and asenapine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of asenapine. Use caution when concurrent administration of asenapine and pazopanib is necessary.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Peginterferon alfa-2b is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 and may decrease the clearance of atypical antipsychotics that are CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 substrates including asenapine. Decreased metabolism of asenapine may lead to adverse reactions such as extrapyramidal symptoms. In addition, asenapine is associated with a risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously with CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Pentamidine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents with a possible risk for QT prolongation whenever possible. Pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation and should be used cautiously with other agents that may have this effect.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Coadministration of pentazocine with atypical antipsychotics may result in additive respiratory and CNS depression and anticholinergic effects, such as urinary retention and constipation. Use pentazocine with caution in any patient receiving medication with CNS depressant and/or anticholinergic activity.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Perphenazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other drugs having an association with QT prolongation. Co-administration of perphenazine with atypical agents may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of asenapine and tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided if possible. Asenapine has been associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, and tricyclics at elevated serum concentrations may produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval. In addition, there is a potential for other interactions, such as augmentation of CNS impairment or orthostatic hypotension. Further, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of asenapine. Inhibitors of these isoenzymes such as imipramine may decrease the elimination of asenapine. During co-administration of a single 75 mg dose of imipramine and a single 5 mg dose of asenapine, the Cmax of asenapine was increased by 17% and the AUC was increased by 10%. No asenapine dose adjustments are required during combined use. (Moderate) Perphenazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other drugs having an association with QT prolongation. Co-administration of perphenazine with atypical agents may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and asenapine due to the risk for additive hypotension and CNS depression.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as asenapine. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Asenapine has a risk of QT prolongation and is contraindicated with pimozide. Concurrent use of pimozide with atypical agents may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of pindolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the pindolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with asenapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking asenapine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of posaconazole and asenapine is contraindicated due to the risk of life threatening arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes (TdP). Posaconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of asenapine. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated asenapine plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for asenapine-related adverse events, such as QT prolongation. Additionally, posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of TdP; avoid use with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval and are metabolized through CYP3A, such as asenapine.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or pramipexole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and pramipexole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Additive CNS depressant effects are also possible. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with pramipexole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of asenapine and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Procainamide: (Major) Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Prochlorperazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other drugs having an association with QT prolongation. In addition, co-administration of prochlorperazine with atypical agents (e.g., aripiprazole, lurasidone and others) may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Promethazine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and potential for serious arrhythmias, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other drugs having an association with QT prolongation. Co-administration of promethazine and antipsychotics may also increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from these combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and potential for serious arrhythmias, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other drugs having an association with QT prolongation. Co-administration of promethazine and antipsychotics may also increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from these combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and potential for serious arrhythmias, asenapine should be avoided in combination with other drugs having an association with QT prolongation. Co-administration of promethazine and antipsychotics may also increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from these combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of propranolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the propranolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of asenapine and tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided if possible. Asenapine has been associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, and tricyclics at elevated serum concentrations may produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval. In addition, there is a potential for other interactions, such as augmentation of CNS impairment or orthostatic hypotension. Further, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of asenapine. Inhibitors of these isoenzymes such as imipramine may decrease the elimination of asenapine. During co-administration of a single 75 mg dose of imipramine and a single 5 mg dose of asenapine, the Cmax of asenapine was increased by 17% and the AUC was increased by 10%. No asenapine dose adjustments are required during combined use.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect.
quiNINE: (Major) Concurrent use of quinine and asenapine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinine has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of TdP. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation. In addition, concentrations of asenapine may be increased with concomitant use of quinine. Asenapine is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate and quinine is an inhibitor of both enzymes.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Ranolazine: (Major) Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. The mean increase in QTc is about 6 milliseconds, measured at the time of the maximum dosage (1000 mg PO twice daily). However, in 5% of the population studied, increases in the QTc of at least 15 milliseconds have been reported. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, such as asenapine, Coadministration may result in additive QT prolongation. In addition, in vitro studies indicate that ranolazine and its metabolite are inhibitors of CYP3A isoenzymes. The impact of coadministering ranolazine with other CYP3A4 substrates has not been studied. Ranolazine may theoretically increase plasma concentrations of CYP3A4 substrates, potentially leading to adverse reactions, such as QT prolongation. Asenapine is a CYP3A4 substrate that also has a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously with ranolazine.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or rasagiline during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and rasagiline may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with rasagiline than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid using asenapine in combination with relugolix due to the potential for QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid using asenapine in combination with relugolix due to the potential for QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with asenapine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with asenapine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation; caution is advised when administering rilpivirine with other drugs that may prolong the QT or PR interval, such as asenapine.
risperiDONE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of risperidone and asenapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Additionally, coadministration may also increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Rolapitant: (Major) Use caution if asenapine and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for asenapine-related adverse effects. Asenapine is a CYP2D6 substrate and rolapitant is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant lasts for at least 7 days, and may last longer after single dose administration. The Cmax and AUC of another CYP2D6 substrate, dextromethorphan, were increased by 120% and 160%, respectively, on day 1 with rolapitant, and by 180% and 230%, respectively, on day 8 after rolapitant administration.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as romidepsin. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. If romidepsin and asenapine must be coadministered, appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions should be considered, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Rotigotine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, excess sedation, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or rotigotine during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and rotigotine may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Additive CNS depressant effects are also possible. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with rotigotine than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Saquinavir: (Major) Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid administering saquinavir boosted with ritonavir concurrently with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval, such as asenapine. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates can cause CNS depression, and if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of selegiline efficacy, signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, and unusual drowsiness and sedation during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and selegiline use. Dopamine antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, may diminish the effectiveness of selegiline. Concomitant use may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome or additive CNS depression. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine with selpercatinib due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration is necessary. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should not be used with other agents also known to have this effect (e.g., halogenated anesthetics). Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of siponimod and asenapine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Asenapine is associated with QT interval prolongation.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Solifenacin: (Major) Solifenacin should be avoided in combination with asenapine. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsades de pointes (TdP) has been reported with post-marketing use, although causality was not determined. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine with sorafenib due to the risk of QT prolongation. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and asenapine. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine with sunitinib due to the risk of QT prolongation. Sunitinib can cause dose-dependent QT prolongation, which may increase the risk for ventricular arrhythmias, including torsades de points (TdP). Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of asenapine and tacrolimus. Both medications have been associated with QT prolongation. Reducing the tacrolimus dose, close monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood concentrations, and monitoring for QT prolongation have been recommended when tacrolimus is administered with other medications that have the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with asenapine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Telavancin: (Major) Telavancin and asenapine have been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, telavancin should be used with caution when prescribing other agents also known to prolong the QT interval. However, according to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to prolong the QT interval.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Coadministration of asenapine and tetrabenazine should be avoided. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc).
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated for use with other drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval, such as asenapine.
Thiothixene: (Major) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of thiothixene and other antipsychotics. Thiothixene use has been associated with adverse events such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and seizures. These effects may be potentiated during concurrent use of other antipsychotics. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of timolol. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known; the timolol dosage may need to be adjusted.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Tolterodine: (Major) Concurrent use of asenapine and tolterodine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tramadol with asenapine may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and increased risk of seizure. Limit the use of tramadol with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and seizures.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tramadol with asenapine may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and increased risk of seizure. Limit the use of tramadol with asenapine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and seizures.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and asenapine due to the risk for additive hypotension and CNS depression.
traZODone: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as trazodone. Trazodone can prolong the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses. In addition, there are post-marketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP). Therefore, the manufacturer recommends avoiding trazodone in patients receiving other drugs that increase the QT interval. In addition, coadministration may increase adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Concurrent use of asenapine and tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided if possible. Asenapine has been associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, and tricyclics at elevated serum concentrations may produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval. In addition, there is a potential for other interactions, such as augmentation of CNS impairment or orthostatic hypotension. Further, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of asenapine. Inhibitors of these isoenzymes such as imipramine may decrease the elimination of asenapine. During co-administration of a single 75 mg dose of imipramine and a single 5 mg dose of asenapine, the Cmax of asenapine was increased by 17% and the AUC was increased by 10%. No asenapine dose adjustments are required during combined use.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Trifluoperazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, asenapine should not be used with other drugs having an association with QT prolongation. In addition, co-administration of trifluoperazine with atypical agents (e.g., aripiprazole, lurasidone and others) may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of asenapine and tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided if possible. Asenapine has been associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, and tricyclics at elevated serum concentrations may produce clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval. In addition, there is a potential for other interactions, such as augmentation of CNS impairment or orthostatic hypotension. Further, in vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of asenapine. Inhibitors of these isoenzymes such as imipramine may decrease the elimination of asenapine. During co-administration of a single 75 mg dose of imipramine and a single 5 mg dose of asenapine, the Cmax of asenapine was increased by 17% and the AUC was increased by 10%. No asenapine dose adjustments are required during combined use.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Triptorelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of triptorelin with asenapine due to the risk of reduced efficacy of triptorelin as well as the risk of QT prolongation. Asenapine can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; triptorelin is a GnRH analog. Additionally, asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with asenapine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. Asenapine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. The manufacturer of vemurafenib recommends ECG monitoring if the drug must be coadministered with another QT prolonging drug; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Venlafaxine is associated with a possible risk of QT prolongation. Other atypical antipsychotics associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously with venlafaxine include asenapine. In addition, venlafaxine is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6, and increases in plasma concentrations of antipsychotics primarily metabolized via CYP2D6, such as risperidone, may occur. Atypical antipsychotics with partial metabolism via CYP2D6 include asenapine.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased asenapine-related adverse effects, such as extrapyramidal symptoms and QT prolongation, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; dosage reduction of asenapine may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of asenapine; asenapine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of asenapine and voclosporin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect, such as clarithromycin. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine and voriconazole due to the potential for additive effects on the QT interval; increased exposure to asenapine is also possible. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation; coadministration may increase this risk. Voriconazole has also been associated with rare cases of torsades de pointes, cardiac arrest, and sudden death. In addition, coadministration of voriconazole (a CYP3A4 inhibitor) with asenapine (a CYP3A4 substrate) may result in elevated asenapine plasma concentrations and could increase the risk for adverse events, including QT prolongation. If these drugs are given together, closely monitor for prolongation of the QT interval. Rigorous attempts to correct any electrolyte abnormalities (i.e., potassium, magnesium, calcium) should be made before initiating concurrent therapy.
Vorinostat: (Major) Asenapine and vorinostat have been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and zaleplon due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and asenapine should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. In addition, coadministration of ziprasidone with other antipsychotics may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and zolpidem due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary. Limit the dose of Intermezzo sublingual tablets to 1.75 mg/day.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Zonisamide may cause decreased sweating (oligohidrosis), elevated body temperature (hyperthermia), heat intolerance, or heat stroke. The manufacturer recommends caution in using concurrent drug therapies that may predispose patients to heat-related disorders such as antipsychotics. Monitor patients for heat intolerance, decreased sweating, or increased body temperature if zonisamide is used with any of these agents.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.


Adverse Reaction
dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, headache, insomnia


During short-term clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for schizophrenia, the following centrally-mediated effects occurred more frequently in patients receiving asenapine 5 to 10 mg twice daily than placebo: dizziness (3% to 7%), drowsiness (13% to 15%), and insomnia (15% to 16%). During clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine in adults with schizophrenia, the following CNS effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving asenapine than placebo: somnolence or drowsiness (3% to 4%) and headache (9%). Somnolence led to treatment discontinuation in 0.6% of adults during premarketing evaluation. During monotherapy trials of sublingual asenapine for bipolar mania, the following CNS effects occurred more frequently with asenapine than placebo: dizziness (11%), headache (12%), insomnia (6%), and drowsiness (23%). Clinical trial data with sublingual asenapine in adults indicate that drowsiness/somnolence is a dose-related effect; however, this trend was not observed with transdermal asenapine. In one fixed dose study, somnolence occurred in 20% of patients receiving 5 mg twice daily, 26% of patients receiving 10 mg twice daily, and 4% of patients receiving placebo. During one controlled trial in which sublingual asenapine was used as adjunct treatment to lithium or valproate for bipolar disorder, CNS effects occurring in the asenapine group with an incidence of 2% or more vs. placebo were as follows: drowsiness (22%), dizziness (4%), and insomnia (10%). In pediatric trials, somnolence/drowsiness occurred in 46% to 53% of patients receiving sublingual asenapine and led to drug discontinuation in 1% to 3% of patients. Other effects that occurred in children and adolescents include the following: insomnia (3% to 4%), headache (8% to 11%), and dizziness (5% to 10%). During other premarketing evaluations of sublingual asenapine, dysarthria was reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients.


abdominal pain, constipation, dental pain, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux, glossitis, hypersalivation, hypoesthesia, nausea, oral ulceration, paresthesias, vomiting, xerostomia


During short-term clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for schizophrenia, the following gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred more frequently in patients receiving asenapine 5 to 10 mg twice daily than placebo: constipation (4% to 7%), xerostomia (1% to 3%), oral hypoesthesia (5% to 7%), hypersalivation (up to 4%), stomach discomfort (up to 3%), and vomiting (4% to 7%). During clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine in adults with schizophrenia, the following adverse GI effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving asenapine transdermal than placebo: constipation (4% to 5%), dyspepsia (1% to 3%), and diarrhea (1% to 3%). Vomiting and xerostomia were observed in other premarketing evaluations of transdermal asenapine. During adult monotherapy trials of sublingual asenapine for bipolar mania, the following GI effects occurred more frequently with asenapine than placebo: xerostomia (3%), dyspepsia (4%), oral hypoesthesia (4%), dental pain (toothache 3%), and dysgeusia (3%). During a controlled trial in adults in which asenapine sublingual was used as adjunct treatment to lithium or valproate for bipolar disorder, GI effects occurring in the asenapine group with an incidence of at least 2% and more frequently than placebo were as follows: dyspepsia (3%) and oral hypoesthesia (5%). In pediatric trials, oral paresthesia (25% to 30%), nausea (6%), abdominal pain (3% to 9%), glossodynia (up to 2%), dysgeusia (4% to 9%), and oropharyngeal pain (up to 3%) were reported; vomiting occurred only in the placebo group. Infrequently (less than 0.01%), gastroesophageal reflux disease was reported. During other premarketing evaluations of sublingual asenapine, oral paresthesias, glossodynia, and swollen tongue (glossitis) were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients. Oral hypoesthesia and/or oral paresthesias may occur directly after asenapine administration; these effects usually resolve within 1 hour. Administration site reactions (e.g., oral ulceration, oral blistering, peeling/sloughing, and oral inflammation), primarily in the sublingual area, have been reported during postmarketing use of the sublingual formulation. In many cases, these application site reactions have led to discontinuation of therapy.


fatigue


During short-term clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for schizophrenia, fatigue occurred in 4% of patients receiving asenapine 5 mg twice daily, 3% of patients receiving asenapine 10 mg twice daily, and 3% of those receiving placebo. During adult monotherapy clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for bipolar disorder, fatigue occurred in 4% of patients receiving asenapine and 2% of those receiving placebo. During an adult controlled trial in which sublingual asenapine was used as adjunct treatment to lithium or valproate for bipolar disorder, fatigue was reported in 4% of patients receiving asenapine and 2% of those receiving placebo. Fatigue was also reported in 9% of pediatric patients overall during clinical trials and appeared to be dose-related, occurring in 4%, 8%, and 14% of patients receiving 2.5 mg, 5 mg, and 10 mg twice daily, respectively.


anxiety, depression, irritability, suicidal ideation


During short-term clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for schizophrenia, irritability occurred in 1% to 2% of patients receiving asenapine 5 to 10 mg twice daily and less than 1% of patients receiving placebo. During adult monotherapy trials of sublingual asenapine for bipolar mania, the following psychiatric effects occurred more frequently with asenapine than placebo: anxiety (4%) and depression (2%). During a controlled trial in adults evaluating sublingual asenapine as adjunct treatment of bipolar mania, the following psychiatric adverse effects were among the most common adverse reactions associated with discontinuation in subjects treated with asenapine: depression (2.5%), suicidal ideation (2.5%), bipolar I disorder (1.9%), and depressive symptoms (1.3%). Suicidal ideation (1% to 4%), anger (up to 2%), and irritability (1% to 2%) were reported in pediatric patients during clinical trials. The possibility of a suicide attempt is inherent in psychotic illnesses and bipolar disorder. Although not reported during clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine, psychiatric effects are possible. Close supervision and control of medication is advisable. Prescribe asenapine in the smallest quantity consistent with good management in order to reduce the risk of overdose.


akathisia, dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, pseudoparkinsonism, torticollis, tremor


During clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for schizophrenia, akathisia occurred in 4% of patients receiving asenapine 5 mg twice daily, 11% of patients receiving asenapine 10 mg twice daily, and 3% of those receiving placebo. Extrapyramidal symptoms excluding akathisia occurred in 9% of patients receiving asenapine 5 mg twice daily, 12% of patients receiving asenapine 10 mg twice daily, and 7% of those receiving placebo. These effects included dystonic reaction, oculogyration, muscle rigidity, dyskinesia, tremor, and pseudoparkinsonism. During clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine in adults with schizophrenia, extrapyramidal symptoms were reported more frequently in patients treated with asenapine than placebo (8% to 13%), and included akathisia (4%) and dystonic reaction (1% to 3%). During adult monotherapy clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for bipolar disorder, akathisia occurred in 7% of patients receiving asenapine and 3% of those receiving placebo. Extrapyramidal symptoms excluding akathisia occurred in 8% of patients receiving asenapine and 4% of those receiving placebo. These symptoms included dystonic reaction (e.g., torticollis), blepharospasm, dyskinesia, muscle rigidity, pseudoparkinsonism, gait disturbance, masked facies, and tremor. The incidence rates of all EPS events, including akathisia, were higher in patients receiving 10 mg twice per day than 5 mg twice per day (25% vs. 11%). During a controlled trial in adults in which sublingual asenapine was used as adjunct treatment to lithium or valproate for bipolar disorder, extrapyramidal symptoms (excluding akathisia) were reported in 6% of patients receiving asenapine and 5% of those receiving placebo. Extrapyramidal symptoms included dystonia, parkinsonism, oculogyration, and tremor. Overall, akathisia and pseudoparkinsonism were reported in 2% and 1%, respectively, of pediatric patients during clinical trials (n = 302). In a 3-week pediatric bipolar disorder trial, extrapyramidal symptoms excluding akathisia occurred in 3% to 5% of patients receiving sublingual asenapine compared to 3% of those receiving placebo. Events reported include bradykinesia, dyskinesia, dystonia, oromandibular dystonia, involuntary muscle contractions, muscle twitching, musculoskeletal stiffness, pseudoparkinsonism, tongue protrusion, resting tremor, and tremor. The incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms (i.e., akathisia, ataxia or abnormal gait, dystonic reaction, hypokinesia or akinesia, hyperkinesis, hypertonia, hyporeflexia, involuntary muscle contractions, oculogyric crisis, pseudoparkinsonism, tremor) is typically lower with atypical antipsychotics than with conventional antipsychotics such as haloperidol. Dystonic reaction is a potential effect of all antipsychotics, and may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. This effect is observed more commonly in males, younger age groups, and with high potency antipsychotics. Dystonic reactions may manifest as torticollis with or without throat tightness, difficulty swallowing or breathing, oculogyric crisis, trismus, or protrusion of the tongue. Pseudoparkinsonism may occur 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of antipsychotic therapy and is more common in elderly patients. Akathisia may develop several days to weeks into therapy and may respond to dosage reduction or concomitant administration of a benzodiazepine or a beta-blocker.


tardive dyskinesia


Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is associated with antipsychotic therapy and is typically associated with long-term use of the drugs. Female geriatric patients appear to have the highest risk for developing TD. Tardive dyskinesia was reported during clinical trials of asenapine for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, although the change in score for the Assessments of Involuntary Movement Scales was comparable between the active treatment group and the placebo group. Manifestations of TD may include involuntary movements of the tongue, face, or neck muscles, and upper or lower extremities. It is possible that asenapine may mask the signs and symptoms of emerging tardive dyskinesia. These symptoms may emerge upon withdrawal of the drug. It should be noted that the manifestations of TD may be permanent, even after discontinuation of the antipsychotic. The likelihood that it will become irreversible increase with the duration of treatment and the cumulative dose, although the syndrome develop after a relatively brief period of treatment. Discontinuation of asenapine therapy should be considered if signs or symptoms of tardive dyskinesia develop. Whether antipsychotics differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. Therefore, asenapine should be prescribed in a manner most likely to reduce the risk of tardive dyskinesia, to include reserving long-term treatment for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that responds to antipsychotics and for whom alternate, effective, and less harmful treatments are not available or appropriate. The lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. Patients should be periodically reassessed for the appropriateness of continued treatment. Routine monitoring for tardive dyskinesia (e.g., AIMS assessment) is recommended for all patients receiving chronic treatment with an antipsychotic.


arthralgia, elevated creatine kinase, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia


During adult monotherapy trials of sublingual asenapine for bipolar mania, the following musculoskeletal effects occurred more frequently with asenapine than placebo: arthralgia (3%) and extremity or musculoskeletal pain (2%). Myalgia and muscle strain were each reported in up to 2% of pediatric sublingual asenapine recipients; fall was reported infrequently. Myalgia was observed with unknown frequency during clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine. Elevated creatine kinase (CK) has been observed with asenapine use. During short-term adult clinical trials for schizophrenia or bipolar mania, CK elevations to greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in 6.4% to 11.1% of adult asenapine sublingual recipients. In short-term pediatric trials, 1% or less of pediatric asenapine sublingual recipients experienced CK elevations at least 3 times ULN. In clinical trial evaluation in adults, CK elevations greater than 3 times the ULN (1.6% to 2.1%) occurred more frequently in asenapine transdermal recipients than with placebo.


appetite stimulation, dehydration, weight gain


Metabolic and nutrition disorders reported with asenapine use during clinical trials included increased appetite and dehydration. Appetite stimulation occurred in 4% or less of adult sublingual asenapine recipients, 8% of pediatric sublingual asenapine recipients, and during clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine (1% to 3%). Dehydration was reported in 1% of pediatric sublingual asenapine recipients but not in adults. Because atypical antipsychotics, including asenapine, may cause metabolic changes and weight gain, monitoring of weight is recommended. During clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine in adults with schizophrenia, weight gain was reported more frequently in patients receiving asenapine than placebo (4% to 6%). During adult clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for the short-term treatment of schizophrenia, the mean weight gain was approximately 1 kg in patients receiving asenapine and 0 kg in patients receiving placebo. At study endpoint, 4.4% to 4.9% of asenapine-treated patients experienced a minimum of 7% increase in body weight compared to 1.6% of placebo-treated patients. In a long-term comparator-controlled clinical trial (52 weeks) for schizophrenia, the mean weight gain from baseline was 0.9 kg. At study endpoint, 14.7% of patients experienced a minimum of a 7% increase in body weight. Specifically, 22% of patients with a baseline Body Mass Index (BMI) of less than 23 had a mean change in weight of 1.7 kg, 13% with a BMI of 27 or less had a mean change of 1 kg, and 9% with a BMI greater than 27 had no mean change in weight from baseline. During adult monotherapy clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for bipolar disorder, the mean weight gain was 1.3 kg in patients receiving asenapine and 0.2 kg in patients receiving placebo. At study endpoint, 5.8% of asenapine-treated patients experienced a minimum of 7% increase in body weight compared to 0.5% of placebo-treated patients. In short-term pediatric trials, 8% to 12% of asenapine-treated patients experienced a minimum of 7% increase in body weight compared to 1.1% of patients receiving placebo. Mean weight gain was 1.4 kg to 1.7 kg in asenapine-treated patients compared to 0.5 kg in those treated with placebo. Weight Z-scores were 0.11, 0.08, and 0.09 standard deviations for asenapine 2.5 mg, 5 mg, and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. Overall, increased weight was reported in 3% of pediatric patients during clinical trials


seizures


Seizures were reported in 0% of patients treated with sublingual asenapine 5 mg twice daily and 0.3% of patients treated with asenapine 10 mg twice daily during short-term adult clinical trials. The seizure incidence was also 0.3% during premarketing evaluation of sublingual asenapine when including long-term trials. Seizures were not observed during premarketing evaluation of transdermal asenapine. Because seizures have been reported, asenapine should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or a seizure disorder.


hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia


Hyperlipidemia (e.g., hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia) is a metabolic effect that may occur during atypical antipsychotic treatment, including asenapine. During short-term clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for schizophrenia, total cholesterol elevations to at least 240 mg/dL occurred in 8.3% of active treatment patients versus 7% of placebo-treated patients while 13.2% of asenapine-treated patients experienced triglyceride elevations to at least 200 mg/dL compared to 10.5% of placebo-treated patients. Mean change in total cholesterol from baseline was -2.4 mg/dL, +3.3 mg/dL, and +0.4 mg/dL, respectively, for patients receiving asenapine 5 mg twice daily, 10 mg twice daily, and flexible dosing, compared to -2.2 mg/dL in patients receiving placebo. Mean change in fasting triglycerides was -1.9 mg/dL, +0.1 mg/dL, and +3.8 mg/dL, respectively, compared to -7.6 mg/dL in the placebo arm. During adult clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for bipolar mania, total cholesterol elevations to at least 240 mg/dL occurred in 8.7% of patients in the asenapine group compared to 8.6% of those in the placebo group while 15.2% of asenapine-treated patients experienced triglyceride elevations to at least 200 mg/dL compared to 11.4% of placebo-treated patients. Mean change in total cholesterol from baseline was +1.1 mg/dL in asenapine-treated patients compared to -1.5 mg/dL in the placebo arm. Mean change in triglycerides was -3.5 mg/dL compared to -17.9 mg/dL in the placebo arm. During short-term pediatric bipolar disorder trials using sublingual asenapine, total cholesterol shifted from normal to high (200 mg/dL or more) in up to 1.8% of asenapine-treated and 1.8% of placebo-treated patients, while triglycerides went from normal to high (200 mg/dL or more) in 1.9% to 4% of actively treated and 0% of placebo-treated patients. Mean change in total cholesterol from baseline was +3.7 to +9.3 mg/dL compared to -2.3 mg/dL in the placebo arm. Mean change in triglycerides was +8.7 to +14.7 mg/dL compared to -6.6 mg/dL in placebo-treated patients.


diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia


Although it is possible that patients with schizophrenia may have an increased risk of diabetes mellitus, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of hyperglycemia-related adverse effects during atypical antipsychotics use. These agents have been associated with extreme cases of hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar coma, and death. Aggravation of preexisting diabetes mellitus may occur. Atypical antipsychotics may have effects on glucose metabolism that are independent of their effect on weight gain. One study noted that patients taking atypical agents were 9% more likely to have a new diagnosis of diabetes mellitus than patients taking older therapies. During clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine in adults with schizophrenia, increased blood glucose was reported more frequently in patients receiving asenapine than placebo (1% to 3%). During short-term clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for schizophrenia, the mean increase in fasting blood glucose in asenapine-treated patients ranged from 1.1 to 3.8 mg/dL versus a decrease of 0.2 mg/dL in placebo-treated patients. Fasting blood glucose concentrations to at least 126 mg/dL occurred in up to 10.5% of active treatment patients versus 4.1% to 5.9% of placebo-treated patients. During adult clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for bipolar mania, the mean decrease in fasting blood glucose in asenapine and placebo-treated patients was 0.6 mg/dL. Fasting blood glucose concentrations to at least 126 mg/dL occurred in 2.7% to 11.4% of patients in the asenapine group compared to up to 3.3% of those in the placebo group. In pediatric bipolar disorder trials, mean change from baseline in fasting glucose ranged from a decrease of 0.45 mg/dL to an increase of 1.43 mg/dL in asenapine-treated patients, while placebo-treated patients had a decrease of 2.24 mg/dL. Up to 1.8% of asenapine-treated patients experienced a shift in blood glucose from normal to high (126 mg/dL or higher). During a long-term adult clinical trial that included primarily patients with schizophrenia, the mean increase in fasting glucose from baseline was 2.4 mg/dL. The possibility of impaired glucose tolerance should be considered in patients receiving asenapine who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia or diabetes, such as polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Discontinuation of asenapine should be considered if symptoms are severe. It should be noted that, in some cases, continued antidiabetic treatment has been necessary despite discontinuation of the causative antipsychotic agent. Of note, hyperinsulinemia has been reported in 2% of pediatric patients during clinical trials.


amenorrhea, dysmenorrhea, galactorrhea, gynecomastia, hyperprolactinemia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), infertility, menstrual irregularity, osteopenia


Hyperprolactinemia is a response to the dopaminergic antagonism caused by antipsychotics. Increased prolactin concentrations are associated with various effects including galactorrhea, libido decrease, gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), menstrual irregularity, amenorrhea, or reversible infertility (i.e., anovulation in females). Chronic hyperprolactinemia may result in loss of bone density (osteopenia) in both males and females. In short-term pediatric trials, prolactin-related adverse events were reported in 2% or less of children/adolescents receiving sublingual asenapine; dysmenorrhea occurred in 1% of pediatric patients. In sublingual asenapine adult pre-marketing clinical trials, the incidences of prolactin-related adverse events were 0.4% versus 0% for placebo. In a 3-week, bipolar mania pediatric trial, the incidence of adverse events related to abnormal prolactin levels were 0% in the asenapine sublingual 2.5 mg twice daily treatment group, 2% in the asenapine 5 mg twice daily treatment group, and 1% in the asenapine 10 mg twice daily treatment group versus 1% with placebo. Dysmenorrhea was reported in 1% of pediatric asenapine sublingual recipients. In the asenapine transdermal placebo-controlled trial, galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence were not reported for asenapine transdermal recipients or placebo. Patients should be counseled on the signs and symptoms of hyperprolactinemia and to contact their care team if these abnormalities occur.


dysphagia


Asenapine should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration. Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration of gastric contents have been associated with antipsychotic use. During short-term clinical trials of sublingual asenapine, dysphagia was reported in up to 0.2% of those receiving asenapine compared to none of those in the placebo group. During premarketing evaluation of sublingual asenapine, including long-term trials without comparison to placebo, dysphagia occurred in 0.1% of patients. Choking has been reported during postmarketing use of sublingual asenapine, some of whom may have also experienced oropharyngeal muscular dysfunction or hypoesthesia.


bradycardia, bundle-branch block, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, peripheral edema, sinus tachycardia, syncope


Asenapine is an alpha-1 adrenergic antagonist and can produce hypotension. Symptoms of orthostatic hypotension may include lightheadedness, dizziness, tachycardia, or syncope. During short-term clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for schizophrenia, syncope was reported in 0.2% of asenapine-treated patients compared to 0.3% of patients treated with placebo. During adult clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for bipolar disorder, syncope was reported in 0.3% of asenapine-treated patients compared to none of the patients treated with placebo. During premarketing evaluation of sublingual asenapine, including long-term trials without comparison to placebo, syncope occurred in 0.6% of patients. In a 3-week, bipolar mania pediatric trial with sublingual asenapine, syncope was reported in 1% or less of patients treated with asenapine compared to none of the patients treated with placebo. Elderly or debilitated patients may be more at risk for these side effects; careful monitoring of vital signs is recommended in patients for whom orthostasis is a concern. It should be noted that bradycardia, hypotension, and sinus pauses occurred during administration of intravenous, oral, or sublingual asenapine to four healthy volunteers during premarketing evaluation. One subject received an intervention (i.e., external cardiac massage). Hypertension occurred more commonly in patients receiving sublingual asenapine than placebo (2% to 3%) and in an adjunct therapy trial for bipolar mania (3%). During clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine in adults with schizophrenia, hypertension was reported more frequently in patients receiving asenapine than placebo (2%). Peripheral edema was reported more frequently than placebo (3%) in a clinical trial of sublingual asenapine as adjunct treatment of bipolar mania. In pediatric trials, tachycardia was reported in 1% of patients receiving sublingual asenapine. During other premarketing evaluations of sublingual asenapine, sinus tachycardia and temporary bundle-branch block were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients.


QT prolongation


Asenapine has been associated with small increases in QTc interval. During clinical trials of sublingual asenapine conducted to assess the effects on QT/QTc interval (n = 151 patients with schizophrenia), use of the drug resulted in QTc interval increases ranging from 2 to 5 msec compared to placebo, with asenapine doses ranging from 10 mg/day to 40 mg/day. No patients experienced increases of 60 msec or more from baseline or a QTc of 500 msec or more. During other premarketing evaluations of sublingual and transdermal asenapine, there were no cases of QT prolongation exceeding 500 msec or development of torsade de pointes; however, however, due to some evidence of QT prolongation with the drug, there are precautions for the use of asenapine in certain cardiac-related conditions.


agranulocytosis, anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Hematologic effects including leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis have been associated with antipsychotic use. A history of drug-induced leukopenia or neutropenia or preexisting low white blood cell (WBC) count may increase the likelihood of developing hematologic effects during treatment with an antipsychotic medication. During premarketing evaluation of sublingual asenapine, thrombocytopenia occurred rarely (less than 0.1%) and anemia was reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be closely monitored for fever and infection, and appropriate medical intervention should be instituted if necessary. Asenapine should be discontinued in patients with severe neutropenia with an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) less than 1,000/mm3.


stroke


An increased mortality rate (1.6 to 1.7 times that of placebo) has been noted in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis receiving atypical antipsychotics; therefore, a boxed warning regarding these events is contained in all atypical antipsychotic labels. In an analysis of 17 placebo-controlled trials primarily using atypical antipsychotics versus conventional antipsychotics, a higher death rate was observed in drug-treated patients than placebo-treated patients (4.5% vs. 2.6%). Death typically occurred due to heart failure, sudden death, or infections (primarily pneumonia). A significantly increased incidence of cerebrovascular events (e.g., stroke, transient ischemic attack), including fatalities, has been reported in the elderly with dementia-related psychosis receiving some atypical antipsychotics compared to placebo. Antipsychotics, including asenapine, are not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis in elderly patients. Conventional antipsychotics also carry a boxed warning regarding these events.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, dyspnea, photosensitivity, rash, wheezing


During premarketing evaluation of sublingual asenapine, photosensitivity was reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients and idiosyncratic drug reactions were reported in less than 0.1% of patients. Rash and dyspnea were both reported in 1% of pediatric patients overall during clinical trials of sublingual asenapine. Symptoms of Type I hypersensitivity, including angioedema, anaphylactoid reactions, hypotension, tachycardia, swollen tongue, dyspnea, wheezing, and rash (unspecified), have been reported during asenapine treatment. In one report, the FDA identified 52 reactions which occurred from August 2009 through September 2010. Eight of the 52 events occurred after the first dose of the sublingual formulation. Fifteen of the cases reported resolution of symptoms after discontinuation of the drug with 2 of these cases reporting a recurring hypersensitivity reaction after re-initiation of asenapine. Nineteen cases resulted in hospitalization or emergency room visits, and 7 cases reported requiring a therapeutic intervention. In some instances, multiple hypersensitivity symptoms occurred simultaneously. Patients should be informed of the signs and symptoms of severe hypersensitivity reactions and instructed to seek immediate medical attention if such events occur.


contact dermatitis, edema, erythema, maculopapular rash, pruritus, skin discoloration, skin hyperpigmentation, skin irritation, xerosis


During clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine in adults with schizophrenia, application site reactions were reported more frequently in patients receiving asenapine than placebo (14% to 15% vs. 3.9%). The most frequent application site reactions were erythema (9.3% to 9.8%) and pruritus (3.9% to 4.9%). Other application site reactions include but are not limited to contact dermatitis (application site dermatitis), skin discoloration, discomfort, dryness (xerosis), edema, exfoliation, induration, skin irritation, pain, and maculopapular rash (papules). One patient developed application site discoloration (skin hyperpigmentation) at multiple application sites that continued for at least several weeks after discontinuing transdermal asenapine. Application site reactions occurred more frequently in African American than Caucasian patients. Inform patients of these potential reactions and that increased skin irritation may occur with transdermal asenapine if applied for a longer period than instructed or if the same application site is used repeatedly. Instruct patients to select a different application site each day to minimize skin reactions.


elevated hepatic enzymes


Elevated hepatic enzymes have been observed in some patients receiving asenapine. During short-term clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for schizophrenia, the mean increase in transaminase levels in asenapine-treated patients was 1.6 units/L versus a decrease of 0.4 units/L in placebo-treated patients. Transaminase elevations to at least 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in 0.9% of active treatment patients versus 1.3% of placebo-treated patients. During clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine in adults with schizophrenia, elevated hepatic enzymes occurred more frequently in patients receiving asenapine than placebo (2%). During adult clinical trials of sublingual asenapine for bipolar mania, the mean increase in transaminase levels in asenapine-treated patients was 6.1 units/L versus a decrease of 3.9 units/L in placebo-treated patients. Transaminase elevations to at least 3 times ULN occurred in 2.1% of patients in the asenapine group compared to 0.7% of those in the placebo group. No cases of more severe liver injury were observed. In one adult long-term study of sublingual asenapine, the mean increase in ALT from baseline was 1.7 units/L. In pediatric trials of sublingual asenapine, ALT and AST elevations were observed in 1% of patients overall. The proportion of pediatric patients with ALT elevations at least 3 times ULN was 2.4% for patients receiving asenapine 10 mg twice daily versus none in the lower dose- and placebo-treated patients.


urinary incontinence


During premarketing evaluation of sublingual asenapine, enuresis (urinary incontinence) was reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients. Causality to the drug has not been established.


hyponatremia, SIADH, water intoxication


Hyponatremia was reported infrequently (0.1% to 1%) with asenapine use. Hyponatremia can develop from polydipsia which can progress to water intoxication, with symptoms such as confusion, lethargy, psychosis, and in severe cases, seizures or death. Some data suggest that antipsychotic-induced hyponatremia is most likely the result of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH).


blurred vision, diplopia, visual impairment


During premarketing evaluation of sublingual asenapine, visual impairment (accomodation disorder), diplopia, and blurred vision were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of patients. Causality to the drug has not been established.


hyperthermia, hypothermia


Antipsychotic agents, including asenapine, can disrupt the hypothalamic mechanism for temperature regulation. Patients at particular risk for hyperthermia include those who exercise strenuously, are exposed to extreme heat, are dehydrated, or are receiving concomitant anticholinergic medications. A less frequently described alteration in thermoregulatory processes reported with both conventional and atypical antipsychotics is hypothermia. Thermoregulation is multi-factorial; however, the dopaminergic system appears to have a primary role, and serotonin may also have modulatory activity (5-HT2a receptors). Most cases of hypothermia associated with antipsychotics have occurred in conjunction with other potential precipitating factors such as hypothyroidism, sepsis, organic brain injury, or environmental temperature. Hypothermia appears to occur more frequently during initiation of antipsychotic therapy or after dose increases. Clinicians should instruct patients to avoid exposure to extreme temperature variations and to stay well hydrated to help prevent hyperthermia. 


infection, nasal congestion, pharyngitis


During clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine in adults with schizophrenia, the following upper respiratory effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving asenapine than placebo: naso-pharyngitis (1% to 3%) and upper respiratory tract infection (1% to 3%). Nasal congestion was reported by 1% to 2% of patients who received sublingual asenapine in pediatric clinical trials.


neuroleptic malignant syndrome


A potential fatal symptom complex referred to as neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a potential side effect of all antipsychotics. NMS is characterized by hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, alterations in consciousness, delirium, and autonomic instability (e.g., irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, arrhythmia). Increased creatine kinase (CK), acute renal failure, rhabdomyolysis, and leukocytosis have also occurred. It should be noted that CK elevations to greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in 6.4% to 11.1% of patients receiving sublingual asenapine in clinical trials. In clinical trial evaluation of transdermal asenapine in adults, CK elevations more than 3 times the ULN occurred more frequently in asenapine-treated patients than placebo-treated patients (1.6% to 2.1% vs. 1.5%). In short-term pediatric trials, 1% or less of asenapine-treated patients experienced CK elevations at least 3 times ULN. The cause of NMS is not completely understood; however, dopamine receptor blockade is one of the mechanisms by which NMS is thought to occur. A primary risk factor for developing NMS appears to be the initiation or increase in dose of an antipsychotic. High potency and depot antipsychotics carry the greatest risk. Environmental risk factors include conditions that inhibit heat dissipation such as an elevated ambient room temperature, prolonged heat exposure, the use of patient restraints, or dehydration. NMS occurs more frequently in young adults, which is most likely the result of age of first exposure rather than an age-related risk. NMS occurs more frequently in men, which is thought to be related to the higher likelihood of male versus female exposure to the causative agent. Risk factors for recurrent NMS include a personal history of NMS, increasing age, and certain medical co-morbidities (e.g., electrolyte imbalances, dehydration). Asenapine should be immediately discontinued and appropriate supportive therapy initiated as soon as symptoms of NMS are discovered.


Description

Asenapine is an atypical antipsychotic agent of the dibenzo-oxepino pyrrole chemical class. The sublingual tablet is used for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults, manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults, maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder in adults, and as monotherapy treatment for acute bipolar I disorder in pediatric patients 10 years and older. The asenapine transdermal system is used for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults. Unlike some other antipsychotics, asenapine has not exhibited a significant effect on the QT interval; post-baseline QT prolongations of more than 500 msec were reported at comparable rates for typical doses of asenapine and placebo in short-term premarketing QT studies. However, cardiac precautions similar to several other atypical antipsychotics are recommended. As with all atypical antipsychotics, the labels include a boxed warning regarding an increased mortality risk in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis.

Mechanism Of Action

The exact mechanism responsible for the therapeutic effects of antipsychotics is unknown. However, it has been theorized that the efficacy of asenapine in treating schizophrenia is mediated through dopamine (D2) and serotonin (5-HT2A) antagonism. Asenapine exhibits a high affinity for serotonin 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT2A, 5-HT2B, 5-HT2C, 5-HT5, 5-HT6, and 5-HT7 receptors, dopamine D2, D3, D4, and D1 receptors, alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic receptors, and histamine H1 receptors. The drug functions as an antagonist at these receptors. Asenapine has a moderate affinity for H2 receptors. The drug has no appreciable affinity for muscarinic receptors. Serotonin activity may account for activity against the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Because asenapine exhibits alpha-1 adrenergic receptor antagonism, use may result in orthostatic hypotension, dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope.

Pharmacokinetics

Asenapine is administered orally as sublingual tablets or transdermally. Asenapine is rapidly distributed and has a large volume of distribution. Asenapine is highly bound to plasma proteins (95%). Pharmacological activity is primarily due to the parent drug. Asenapine is extensively metabolized in the liver, primarily by UGT1A4 and CYP1A2, and is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 to a lesser extent. After a single sublingual dose, about 50% of the dose is excreted through the urine and 40% in the feces, predominantly as metabolites including asenapine N-glucuronide, N-desmethylasenapine, and N-desmethylasenapine N-carbamoyl glucuronide. The elimination pathways of the remaining 10% after sublingual administration have not been described. The terminal half-life of the sublingual tablets is about 24 hours. The transdermal system has an elimination half-life of approximately 30 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, UGT1A4
Asenapine is primarily a substrate for UGT1A4 and CYP1A2, and is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 to a lesser extent. Asenapine is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6. Inducing effects on CYP1A2 or CYP3A4 have not been observed.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Other Route(s)

Sublingual Route
After sublingual (SL) tablet administration, the absolute bioavailability of the 5 mg SL dose is 35% and peak plasma concentrations occur within 0.5 to 1.5 hours. The extent of exposure and maximum concentrations are less than linear when increasing the dose from 5 mg SL twice daily to 10 mg SL twice daily. Steady-state concentrations are attained within 3 days of beginning twice daily dosing. Drinking water 2 or 5 minutes after administration decreases asenapine exposure by 19% and 10%, respectively. A pharmacokinetic study evaluating the effect of food indicated that consumption of food immediately prior to sublingual administration decreased asenapine exposure by 20%; consumption of food 4 hours after sublingual administration decreased asenapine exposure by about 10%. These effects are likely due to increased hepatic blood flow. Eating or drinking should be avoided for 10 minutes after SL administration. The absolute bioavailability of asenapine when swallowed is low (less than 2% with an oral tablet formulation, which is not marketed). Patients should not swallow the SL tablets whole.
 
Transdermal Route
After transdermal application, about 60% of the asenapine dose is released over 24 hours. Maximum asenapine concentrations are typically reached between 12 and 24 hours, with sustained concentrations during the "wear time" of 24 hours. Steady-state plasma concentrations are achieved about 72 hours after the first application, with a peak to trough ratio of 1.5. Based on relative bioavailability and established dose proportionality, the AUCs for the 3.8 mg/24 hour and 7.6 mg/24 hour transdermal systems were similar to that for sublingual asenapine 5 mg twice daily and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. There is no effect on asenapine kinetics with regard to the recommended application sites. Placement of a heating pad on the transdermal system for 8 hours led to a faster absorption rate (median Tmax of 8 hours) than without a heating pad (median Tmax of about 16 hours) as well as 3.9 times greater mean asenapine exposure over 8 hours.

Hepatic Impairment

All formulations of asenapine are contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C). In studies of patients with severe hepatic impairment, asenapine exposure following sublingual administration was an average of 7 times higher compared to the group with normal hepatic function, and asenapine exposure was 12% higher in subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B) compared to healthy subjects. Dosage adjustments are not required for those with mild to moderate hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Results from pharmacokinetic studies in patients with renal impairment indicate that exposure to asenapine is similar in those with mild to severe renal impairment and those with normal renal function; therefore dosage adjustments based upon renal function are not necessary. The effect of dialysis on asenapine pharmacokinetics is not known.

Pediatrics

Based on cross-trial pharmacokinetic analyses in pediatric patients, asenapine pharmacokinetic exposures appear similar to those seen with adult patients during sublingual administration. Transdermal asenapine data are not available for pediatric patients.

Geriatric

Exposure to asenapine is 30% to 40% higher in elderly patients than younger adults. However, based on a pharmacokinetic study in elderly patients with sublingual asenapine, dosage adjustments are not recommended based on age alone. Due to an insufficient number of elderly patients enrolled in clinical trials of sublingual or transdermal asenapine, it is unknown if this patient population has a greater pharmacodynamic response to the drug than younger adults.

Gender Differences

Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis for sublingual asenapine, there appears to be no difference in asenapine pharmacokinetics based upon gender.

Ethnic Differences

Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis for sublingual asenapine, there appears to be no difference in asenapine pharmacokinetics based upon ethnicity.

Obesity

Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis for sublingual asenapine, there appears to be no difference in asenapine pharmacokinetics based upon BMI.

Other

Smoking
In a population pharmacokinetic analysis for sublingual asenapine, there was no difference in asenapine pharmacokinetics based on tobacco smoking status, despite the CYP1A2 metabolism of the drug. A dose adjustment in some smokers may be considered.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations

Sublingual tablets
Remove the sublingual tablet from the package just prior to administration. Open the tablet pack by peeling back the colored tab. Do not push the tablets through the tablet pack.
Gently remove the tablet using dry hands.
After removal from the packaging, place the tablet under the patient's tongue where it will dissolve within seconds and can then be swallowed with saliva.
Do not split, chew, crush, or swallow the sublingual tablet.
Advise patients to avoid eating or drinking for 10 minutes after administration.


Topical Administration
Transdermal Patch Formulations

Asenapine transdermal system (Secuado)
Apply once daily and wear for 24 hours only.
Instruct patients to wear only 1 transdermal system at any time.
Do not cut open the pouch until ready to apply the transdermal system and do not use if the individual pouch seal is broken or if it appears damaged.
Do not cut the transdermal system; the entire patch should be applied.
Apply patch to clean, dry, and intact skin at the selected application site. Application sites include the upper arm, upper back, abdomen, or hip.
Rotate the patch application site. Apply the transdermal system to a different application site each time a new patch is applied to minimize skin reactions. Increased skin irritation may occur if the patch is applied for a longer period than instructed or if the same application site is used repeatedly.
If the transdermal system lifts at the edges, reattach by pressing firmly and smoothing down the edges of the system. If the transdermal system comes off completely, apply a new transdermal system.
If irritation or a burning sensation occurs during use of the patch, remove the patch and apply a new one to a new application site.
Showering is permitted; however, use of the transdermal system during swimming or taking a bath has not been evaluated.
Prolonged application of heat over the asenapine transdermal system can increase asenapine plasma concentrations, potentially increasing the risk of adverse effects. Avoid the use of external heat sources (e.g., heating pad, hair dryers, electric blankets, and heated water beds) while using the transdermal asenapine system.
Disposal: Remove the old patch before a new patch is applied. Fold the used transdermal system so that the adhesive side sticks to itself, then safely discard out of reach of children and pets.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

20 mg/day SL tablet; 7.6 mg/24 hours transdermally.

Geriatric

20 mg/day SL tablet; 7.6 mg/24 hours transdermally.

Adolescents

20 mg/day SL tablet. Safety and efficacy of the transdermal system have not been established.

Children

10 to 12 years: 20 mg/day SL tablet. Safety and efficacy of the transdermal system have not been established.
Less than 10 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Asenapine 10mg Sublingual tablet

Asenapine 2.5mg Sublingual tablet

Asenapine 5mg Sublingual tablet

Saphris 10mg Sublingual Tablet (Black Cherry)

Saphris 2.5mg Sublingual Tablet (Black Cherry)

Saphris 5mg Sublingual Tablet (Black Cherry)

SECUADO 3.8mg/24hr Transdermal System

SECUADO 5.7mg/24hr Transdermal System

SECUADO 7.6mg/24hr Transdermal System

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Mild to moderate impairment (Child-Pugh Class A or B): No dosage adjustment is required.
Severe impairment (Child-Pugh Class C): Asenapine use is contraindicated. Patients with severe hepatic dysfunction experienced mean exposures of asenapine that were 7 times higher than those in patients with normal hepatic function.

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustment is needed.
 
Hemodialysis
The effect of dialysis on the clearance of asenapine has not been studied.

© 2026 Elsevier