=== Ziftomenib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5634)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ziftomenib is a menin inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with a susceptible nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) mutation who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 600 mg PO once daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): conjunctivitis, cystitis, gingivitis, infection, necrotizing fasciitis, rhinitis, sepsis, sinusitis, disseminated intravascular coagulation, ecchymosis, epistaxis, gi bleeding, hematemesis, hematoma, hematuria, hemoptysis, ocular hemorrhage, petechiae, purpura, subdural hematoma, vaginal bleeding, vitreous hemorrhage, asthenia, fatigue, malaise, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, flank pain, musculoskeletal pain

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. differentiation syndrome Differentiation syndrome has been reported with ziftomenib therapy; some cases were life-threatening or fatal. Differentiation syndrome was observed with and... Emetic risk: Minimal/low

Brand Names
  - Komzifti

Dosage Forms
  - Komzifti 200mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of relapsed or refractory AML in patients with a susceptible nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) mutation who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          600 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity; for patients without confirmed disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, treat for a minimum of 6 months to allow time for a clinical response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. The complete remission (CR) plus CR with partial hematologic recovery (CRh) rate was 21.4% and the median CR + CRh duration was 5 months in a single-arm, open-label clinical trial (KO-MEN-001; n = 112) in adults with relapsed or refractory AML with an NPM1 mutation. Among the 66 patients dependent on red blood cell (RBC) and/or platelet transfusions at baseline, 14 (21.2%) became independent of RBC and platelet transfusions during any 56-day post-baseline period. Of the 46 patients who were independent of both RBC and platelet transfusions at baseline, 12 (26.1%) patients remained transfusion independent during any 56-day post-baseline period.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    differentiation syndrome
    General Information
    Differentiation syndrome has been reported with ziftomenib therapy; some cases were life-threatening or fatal. Differentiation syndrome was observed with and without concomitant hyperleukocytosis. Reduce the white blood cell count to less than 25,000 cells/mm3 prior to starting ziftomenib. If differentiation syndrome is suspected, hold ziftomenib therapy, start corticosteroid therapy and closely monitor hemodynamic and laboratory parameters until symptom resolution; permanent discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, heart failure, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of ziftomenib in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Do not initiate treatment in patients with heart-rate corrected QT interval using Fridericia's method (QTcF) greater than 480 milliseconds. Perform an ECG at baseline, at least once weekly for the first 4 weeks on treatment, and at least monthly thereafter. More frequent ECG monitoring may be necessary in patients with congenital long QTc syndrome, congestive heart failure, electrolyte abnormalities, or those who are taking medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to starting ziftomenib.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of ziftomenib during pregnancy. Ziftomenib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. Administration of ziftomenib to mice during organogenesis caused adverse developmental outcomes, including embryo-fetal mortality, structural abnormalities, and altered fetal growth at exposures approximately 0.3 times the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk associated with ziftomenib. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. People who may become pregnant should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during and for 6 months after the last dose of ziftomenib. People who can cause pregnancy in others should use effective contraception during treatment and for 3 months after the last dose. Individuals who become pregnant while receiving ziftomenib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Based on animal data, ziftomenib may impair male and female fertility; these effects were not reversible after a 4-week recovery period.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding while taking ziftomenib and for 2 weeks after the last dose. Ziftomenib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of ziftomenib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of ziftomenib during pregnancy. Ziftomenib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. Administration of ziftomenib to mice during organogenesis caused adverse developmental outcomes, including embryo-fetal mortality, structural abnormalities, and altered fetal growth at exposures approximately 0.3 times the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding while taking ziftomenib and for 2 weeks after the last dose. Ziftomenib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of ziftomenib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. If ziftomenib is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with ziftomenib may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is partially metabolized via CYP3A and ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ziftomenib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ziftomenib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ziftomenib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. If ziftomenib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ziftomenib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and adagrasib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. If ziftomenib is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If ziftomenib is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and ziftomenib due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ziftomenib, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and amiodarone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%. (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Antacids: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Apomorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with aprepitant/fosaprepitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and aripiprazole increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other aripiprazole-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, those receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor and ziftomenib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status; refer to product labeling for specific guidance. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if coadministration is required. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ziftomenib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ziftomenib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid, such as oral sodium bicarbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. If ziftomenib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ziftomenib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ziftomenib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with berotralstat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and buprenorphine increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase buprenorphine exposure, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when ziftomenib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose has been achieved. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a reduced dose of buprenorphine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. When discontinuing ziftomenib, buprenorphine concentrations may decrease, potentially reducing opioid efficacy or precipitating withdrawal in individuals who have developed physical dependence. If ziftomenib is discontinued, consider increasing the buprenorphine dosage until stable opioid effects are restored and monitor for withdrawal symptoms. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and buprenorphine increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase buprenorphine exposure, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when ziftomenib is added after a stable buprenorphine dose has been achieved. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a reduced dose of buprenorphine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. When discontinuing ziftomenib, buprenorphine concentrations may decrease, potentially reducing opioid efficacy or precipitating withdrawal in individuals who have developed physical dependence. If ziftomenib is discontinued, consider increasing the buprenorphine dosage until stable opioid effects are restored and monitor for withdrawal symptoms. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ziftomenib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ziftomenib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ziftomenib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ziftomenib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction. (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and an H2-blocker if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or 10 hours after the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or 10 hours after an H2-blocker is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure and efficacy and may increase carbamazepine concentrations and the risk for carbamazepine-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ziftomenib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ceritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with chloramphenicol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ziftomenib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ziftomenib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ziftomenib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and an H2-blocker if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or 10 hours after the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or 10 hours after an H2-blocker is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and ziftomenib due to the risk for increased cisapride exposure and additive risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and clofazimine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and clozapine increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase clozapine exposure and the risk for other clozapine-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a clozapine dose reduction and take steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Clozapine is a CYP3A substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ziftomenib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ziftomenib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ziftomenib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ziftomenib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ziftomenib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ziftomenib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ziftomenib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ziftomenib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ziftomenib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ziftomenib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with ziftomenib may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of ziftomenib could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If ziftomenib is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with conivaptan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Crizotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and crizotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with cyclosporine is necessary. In addition, closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations and assess for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions during concomitant use; the cyclosporine dose may need to be adjusted. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor and cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Dasatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and dasatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Degarelix: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dexlansoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and dexmedetomidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with diltiazem is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and disopyramide increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase disopyramide exposure and the risk for other disopyramide-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and dofetilide increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk for other dofetilide-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and dordaviprone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with duvelisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased ziftomenib exposure and efficacy and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased ziftomenib exposure and efficacy and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased ziftomenib exposure and efficacy and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Eliglustat: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and eliglustat increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk for other eliglustat-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP or CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs). Reduce the eliglustat dosage to 84 mg orally once daily if concomitant use is necessary in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers (EMs) with mild hepatic impairment. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if coadministration is required. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and encorafenib due to the risk for decreased ziftomenib exposure and efficacy and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Famotidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and an H2-blocker if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or 10 hours after the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or 10 hours after an H2-blocker is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with fedratinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and ziftomenib should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. If ziftomenib is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If ziftomenib is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased ziftomenib exposure and efficacy and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperkalemia and reduce the finerenone dosage as appropriate based on observed changes in serum potassium values if concomitant use of finerenone and ziftomenib is required. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk for finerenone-related adverse effects, such as hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased finerenone overall exposure by 21%.
Fingolimod: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and fingolimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors, including ziftomenib, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and fluconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of ziftomenib and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and fluvoxamine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with fosamprenavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and ziftomenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and ziftomenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and gemifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and gemtuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and gepotidacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and givinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Goserelin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Granisetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and granisetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during ziftomenib treatment due to the risk of increased ziftomenib exposure and adverse reactions. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
H2-blockers: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and an H2-blocker if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or 10 hours after the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or 10 hours after an H2-blocker is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and haloperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ziftomenib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ziftomenib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If ziftomenib is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and hydroxyzine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and an H2-blocker if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or 10 hours after the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or 10 hours after an H2-blocker is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with idelalisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with imatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and inotuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with isavuconazonium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and itraconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Lansoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%. (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Lapatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and lapatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lefamulin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and lefamulin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with oral lefamulin may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with ziftomenib as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with letermovir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate and strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2- and 3-fold, respectively.
Leuprolide: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lonafarnib and ziftomenib due to the risk for increased exposure to both drugs, which may increase the risk of adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dose of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor for adverse reactions, including QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. Lonafarnib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor and ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and lopinavir; ritonavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, lopinavir; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and mefloquine increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mefloquine exposure and the risk for other mefloquine-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mefloquine is a CYP3A substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. If ziftomenib is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with ziftomenib can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and methadone increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase methadone exposure, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when ziftomenib is added after a stable methadone dose is achieved. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. When discontinuing ziftomenib, methadone concentrations may decrease, potentially reducing opioid efficacy or precipitating withdrawal in individuals who have developed physical dependence. If ziftomenib is discontinued, consider increasing the methadone dosage until stable opioid effects are restored and monitor for withdrawal symptoms. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and ziftomenib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with ziftomenib. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased midazolam overall exposure by 1.9-fold.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of ziftomenib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with nefazodone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with nelfinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with netupitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Nilotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and nilotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with nirogacestat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with ziftomenib due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Nizatidine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and an H2-blocker if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or 10 hours after the H2-blocker. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and H2-blockers alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or 10 hours after an H2-blocker is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%. (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid, such as oral sodium bicarbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. If ziftomenib is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like ziftomenib can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If ziftomenib is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased ziftomenib exposure and efficacy and the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pantoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%.
Pasireotide: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of ziftomenib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of ziftomenib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase pimozide exposure, further increasing the risk for QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is a CYP3A substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and posaconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and ziftomenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of ziftomenib and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and propafenone increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase propafenone exposure, further increasing the risk for arrhythmias. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor, those with CYP2D6 deficiency, or those with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
RABEprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Consider alternatives, such as an H2-blocker or antacid, if an agent that alters gastric pH is required; adjustments to timing of administration may also be necessary. Concurrent use may interfere with ziftomenib absorption which may reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use of ziftomenib and a PPI reduced ziftomenib overall exposure by 53%.
Ranolazine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ranolazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with relacorilant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and revumenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold, while concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold, while concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
risperiDONE: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and risperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and saquinavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and sertraline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of ziftomenib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid, such as oral sodium bicarbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.
Solifenacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and solifenacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if ziftomenib must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. If ziftomenib is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like ziftomenib can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If ziftomenib is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
SUNItinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and sunitinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and tacrolimus increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase tacrolimus exposure and the risk for other tacrolimus-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary; the dose of tacrolimus may also need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a CYP3A substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and taletrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and tamoxifen increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with tipranavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Tolterodine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and tolterodine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ziftomenib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of ziftomenib, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with ziftomenib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of ziftomenib and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Triptorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with tucatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with ziftomenib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and vardenafil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and venlafaxine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and ziftomenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with ziftomenib is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and voclosporin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and voriconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Vorinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for ziftomenib-related adverse effects, such as QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ziftomenib exposure. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with ziftomenib is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and ziftomenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    differentiation syndrome
    General Information
    Fatal or life-threatening differentiation syndrome (DS) can occur with ziftomenib. Reduce the white blood cell count to less than 25,000 cells/mm3 prior to starting ziftomenib. Symptoms of DS include fever, hypoxia, joint pain, hypotension, dyspnea, rapid weight gain or peripheral edema, pleural or pericardial effusions, acute kidney injury, and rash. DS, with and without concomitant hyperleukocytosis, occurred in 26% (grade 3, 13%) of patients with relapsed or refractory acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) with an NPM1 mutation treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial; 2 fatal cases of DS also occurred in the same population. The median time to onset of DS was 15 days (range: 3 to 46 days). Two patients experienced more than one DS event. In a broader evaluation of ziftomenib for the treatment of patients with any genetic form of AML in clinical trials, DS occurred in 25% of patients with 4 fatal cases occurring in patients with KMT2A-rearranged AML treated with ziftomenib. If DS is suspected, interrupt ziftomenib and initiate treatment with corticosteroids (e.g. dexamethasone 10 mg every 12 hours) for a minimum of 3 days and until resolution; institute supportive measures and hemodynamic and laboratory monitoring until improvement. Resume ziftomenib treatment at the same dose level when signs and symptoms improve to Grade 2 or lower. Taper corticosteroids over a minimum of 3 days after adequate control or resolution of symptoms; DS symptoms may recur with premature discontinuation of corticosteroids.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      differentiation syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    Ziftomenib can cause QT prolongation. QTc interval prolongation occurred in 12% (grade 3, 8%) of patients treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial. The heart-rate corrected QT interval (using Fridericia's method) (QTcF) was greater than 500 msec in 9% of patients, while an increase from baseline QTcF of more than 60 msec occurred in 12% of patients in the same population. QTc prolongation occurred in 10% of patients 65 years or older and in 14% of patients less than 65 years. Correct electrolyte abnormalities, including hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia, prior to treatment with ziftomenib. Perform an ECG prior to initiation of ziftomenib, at least once weekly for the first 4 weeks on treatment, and at least monthly thereafter; more frequent ECG monitoring may be necessary in patients with congenital long QTc syndrome, congestive heart failure, electrolyte abnormalities, or those taking medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Do not initiate ziftomenib in patients with a QTcF of more than 480 msec. Interrupt ziftomenib treatment if the QTc interval is more than 500 msec or the change from baseline is more than 60 msec.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on findings in animals, ziftomenib may cause infertility in both people who can become pregnant and those who can cause pregnancy; these findings were not reversible after a 4-week recovery period.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    conjunctivitis, cystitis, gingivitis, infection, necrotizing fasciitis, rhinitis, sepsis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Infections, including fatal cases, have occurred in patients treated with ziftomenib. Infection without an identified pathogen (52%; grade 3 or 4, 38%), bacterial infection (28%; grade 3 or 4, 17%), and viral infection (16%; grade 3 or 4, 5%) were each reported in patients with relapsed or refractory acute myelogenous leukemia treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial. Grade 3 or 4 febrile neutropenia was also reported in 22% of patients in the same population. The term infection without identified pathogen included abscess, anorectal infection, bronchitis, conjunctivitis, device related infection, diverticulitis, cystitis, gingivitis, hordeolum, nail infection, necrotizing fasciitis, periodontitis, peritonitis, pneumonia, respiratory tract infection, rhinitis, sepsis, septic shock, sinusitis, tooth infection, urosepsis, vaginal infection, and wound infection. The term bacterial infection included bacteremia, bacterial pyelonephritis, cellulitis, colitis, erysipelas, sepsis, urinary tract infection, and paronychia. The term viral infection included herpes simplex reactivation and herpes zoster.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sepsis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      necrotizing fasciitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gingivitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    disseminated intravascular coagulation, ecchymosis, epistaxis, GI bleeding, hematemesis, hematoma, hematuria, hemoptysis, melena, ocular hemorrhage, petechiae, purpura, subdural hematoma, vaginal bleeding, vitreous hemorrhage
    General Information
    Hemorrhage was reported in 38% (grade 3 or 4, 8%) of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial. The term hemorrhage included angina bullosa hemorrhagic, bladder tamponade, hematoma, ocular hemorrhage, contusion, disseminated intravascular coagulation, ecchymosis, epistaxis, GI bleeding, gingival bleeding, hematemesis, hematochezia, hematuria, hemoptysis, hemorrhoidal hemorrhage, hyperfibrinolysis, melena, oral blood blister, petechiae, purpura, hemorrhagic shock, rectal hemorrhage, subdural hematoma, vaginal bleeding, and vitreous hemorrhage.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      disseminated intravascular coagulation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hematemesis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      melena
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      petechiae
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vitreous hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hemoptysis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      subdural hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Hypertension occurred in 11% (grade 3 or 4, 5%) of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    colitis, diarrhea
    General Information
    Diarrhea was reported in 36% (grade 3, 5%) of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial. The term diarrhea included colitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea, including vomiting, was reported in 35% (grade 3, 2%) of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue, malaise
    General Information
    Fatigue, including asthenia and malaise, was reported in 34% (grade 3 or 4, 8%) of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Edema, including peripheral edema and swelling, occurred in 30% (grade 3, 3%) of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, flank pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain occurred in 28% (grade 3 or 4, 4%) of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial. The term musculoskeletal pain included arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, flank pain, chest pain, myalgia, neck pain, and extremity pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flank pain
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    pruritus
    General Information
    Pruritus occurred in 23% of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    leukocytosis
    General Information
    Leukocytosis occurred in 16% (grade 3, 5%) of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    azotemia, renal failure
    General Information
    Renal impairment was reported in 19% (grade 3 or 4, 6%) of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial; increases from baseline in serum creatinine also occurred in 45% (grade 3 or 4, 4%) in patients in the same population. The term renal impairment included acute kidney injury, azotemia, increased serum creatinine, increased serum urea, chronic kidney disease, postrenal failure, and renal failure.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      azotemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dyspnea, hypoxia
    General Information
    Hypoxia occurred in 9% (grade 3 or 4, 5%) of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial; serious cases of dyspnea were also reported in 6% of patients in the same population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoxia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased AST (53%; grade 3 or 4, 4%) and increased ALT (50%; grade 3 or 4, 6%) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial. Increases from baseline in alkaline phosphatase (41%; grade 3 or 4, 5%), bilirubin/hyperbilirubinemia (27%; grade 3 or 4, 6%), and separately reported increased transaminases (21; grade 3 or 4, 8%), including increased AST, ALT, GGT, and hypertranaminasemia, were also reported in patients in the same population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Hypoalbuminemia, including decreases from baseline in albumin, was reported in 51% (grade 3 or 4, 5%) of patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia
    General Information
    Hyponatremia, hypokalemia, and hyperkalemia have been reported in patients treated with ziftomenib. Decreases from baseline in sodium (49%; grade 3 or 4, 3%) and potassium (52%; grade 3 or 4, 22%), and increases from baseline in potassium (26%; grade 3 or 4, 6%) occurred in patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with ziftomenib in the KO-MEN-001 trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Ziftomenib is a menin inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with a susceptible nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) mutation who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options. It carries a black box warning for differentiation syndrome. Ziftomenib was approved by the FDA in November 2025.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ziftomenib is a menin inhibitor that blocks the interaction of lysine [K]-specific methyltransferase 2A (KMT2A) and menin. Acute leukemias can be driven by nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) mutations that recruit the wild-type menin-KMT2A complex to promoters of leukemogenic genes. Susceptible NPM1 mutations are those that result in loss of the nucleolar localization signal and the insertion of a new nuclear export signal leading to cytoplasmic accumulation of mutant NPM1 protein which disrupts normal cell function and drives leukemogenesis through altered gene expression. The disruption of the menin-KMT2A interaction by ziftomenib blocks the oncogenic activity of mutant NPM1, which induces differentiation of leukemic cells. Ziftomenib has demonstrated in vitro and in vivo antitumor activity in models of NPM1-mutant leukemia.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    When administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the ziftomenib Cmax was 617 nanograms/mL (CV, 33%) and the AUC was 13,185 nanograms x hours/mL (CV, 36%). When administered without strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the ziftomenib Cmax was 288 nanograms/mL (CV, 41%) and the AUC was 5,512 nanograms x hours/mL (CV, 48%). The absolute bioavailability of ziftomenib is 12.9%; ziftomenib exposure was dose-proportional over a range of 200 mg to 600 mg once daily (0.33 to 1 times the recommended daily dose). The Tmax was 4.1 hours (range, 0.5 to 8.15 hours) with an accumulation of 3-fold.
Effect of food: Administration of ziftomenib with a high-fat meal (approximately 1,000 calories; 60% fat, 25% carbohydrates, 15% protein) resulted in a 4-fold increase in the ziftomenib AUC and Cmax.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild (bilirubin less than or equal to upper limit of normal [ULN] with AST more than ULN or bilirubin 1.5 times ULN or less) or moderate (bilirubin 1.5 to 3 times ULN) hepatic impairment does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ziftomenib. The effect of severe hepatic impairment (bilirubin more than 3 times ULN) on the pharmacokinetics of ziftomenib has not been evaluated.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ziftomenib. The effect of severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) on the pharmacokinetics of ziftomenib has not been evaluated.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (18 to 86 years) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ziftomenib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ziftomenib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race and ethnicity do not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ziftomenib.
  Text
  Ziftomenib is administered orally. It is 99% protein bound to albumin and has an apparent mean volume of distribution of 30,100 liters (CV, 98%). When administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the elimination half-life is 189.8 hours (CV, 23%) with an apparent clearance of 41.5 liters/hour (CV, 29%). When administered without CYP3A4 inhibitors, the elimination half-life is 93.6 hours (CV, 21%) with an apparent clearance of 101.2 liters/hour (CV, 27%). Ziftomenib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A with 86% of the dose recovered in feces (73% as unchanged drug) and 0.5% recovered in urine (0.03% as unchanged drug).
Pharmacodynamics: A concentration-dependent increase in the QTc interval with the largest mean increase predicted to be 7.7 milliseconds (msec) was observed in patients following administration of ziftomenib 600 mg once daily. A heart-rate corrected QT interval (using Fridericia's method) (QTcF) of greater than 500 msec and an increase in QTc more than 60 msec over baseline occurred in 7% of patients (9/133).
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and transporters: CYP3A, CYP1A2, UGT1A9, UGT2B17, P-gp, BCRPZiftomenib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A. Ziftomenib is predicted to increase the AUC and Cmax of the CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam, by up to 1.9- and 1.4-fold, respectively. In vitro, ziftomenib is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP, an inhibitor of UGT1A9 and UGT2B17, and an inducer of CYP1A2. Administration of proton pump inhibitors with ziftomenib reduced the ziftomenib AUC by 53% and Cmax by 70%.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Take once daily at approximately the same time each day.
Take on an empty stomach (at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal).
Swallow capsules whole; do not open, break, or chew the capsules.
If a dose is missed within 12 hours, take the dose. If a dose is missed by more than 12 hours, take the next dose at the regular time on the following day; do not take 2 doses within 12 hours.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    600 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    600 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dose adjustment is required for patients with mild (bilirubin less than or equal to the upper limit of normal [ULN] and AST greater than ULN OR bilirubin 1.5 times ULN or less) or moderate (bilirubin 1.5 to 3 times ULN) hepatic impairment. The effects of severe hepatic impairment (bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN) have not been studied.
  Renal Impairment
  No dose adjustment is required for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min). The effects of severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) have not been studied.
