=== Methylergonovine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1450)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Methylergonovine is an oral and parenteral semisynthetic derivative of ergonovine, an ergot alkaloid.

Routes: oral, injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 0.8 mg/day PO for up to 7 days.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): fetal death, spontaneous fetal abortion, teratogenesis, uterine contractions, uterine rupture

In an Overdose: Symptoms of ergotism are rare with the appropriate dosing and limited duration of use of methylergonovine; symptoms of acute overdose may include nausea, vomiting, oliguria, abdominal pain, numbness and tingling of the extremities...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Methylergonovine is contraindicated in those with known ergot alkaloid hypersensitivity because they may develop an allergic reaction or other serious adverse event. Patients should be advised not to exceed the recommended dosage or duration of methylergonovine therapy and to report any of the... Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

Brand Names
  - Methergine

Dosage Forms
  - Methergine 0.2mg Tablet
  - Methylergonovine Maleate 0.2mg Oral tablet
  - Methylergonovine Maleate 0.2mg/1mL Solution for injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.2 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily for up to 7 days.
      Heading
      Intramuscular dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.2 mg IM as a single dose after delivery of the anterior shoulder or placenta or during the puerperium; may repeat dose every 2 to 4 hours as needed. However, it is unlikely that additional doses will be of benefit if there is no response after first dose.
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.2 mg IV as a single dose after delivery of the anterior shoulder or placenta or during the puerperium; may repeat dose every 2 to 4 hours as needed. Guidelines do not recommend intravenous administration.
    Heading
    For the management of uterine atony, subinvolution of the uterus, and postpartum bleeding after delivery of the placenta or uterine hemorrhage in the second stage of labor after delivery of the anterior shoulder

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Methylergonovine is contraindicated in those with known ergot alkaloid hypersensitivity because they may develop an allergic reaction or other serious adverse event. Patients should be advised not to exceed the recommended dosage or duration of methylergonovine therapy and to report any of the following symptoms of ergot toxicity: abdominal pain, anxiety, chest pain, myalgia, severe nausea and vomiting, numbness, tingling, or vision changes. If signs and symptoms of impaired circulation occur, the medication should be discontinued, and affected extremities should be kept warm.
 
Methylergonovine should be used with caution in children; safe and effective use has not been established. Do not give methylergonovine to prepubertal children or infants. Serious adverse effects have occurred in neonates who were inadvertently administered methylergonovine; neonates may exhibit prolonged elimination of the drug, which may complicate management of accidental administration.
 
Methylergonovine is not as effective as other ergot alkaloids in the acute treatment of migraine or related headache; use for this purpose should be avoided. Ergot alkaloids like methylergonovine should be avoided in patients with an active stroke because they may further reduce cerebral blood flow to the ischemic area.
 
Methylergonovine is classified in FDA risk category C; however, use during pregnancy is contraindicated except following obstetric delivery or abortion. While teratogenic effects have not been specifically noted, methylergonovine and other ergot alkaloids should not be administered during active pregnancy because the potent oxytocic and uterine stimulant properties of the drugs will likely cause harm to the fetus. The drug may be given, under obstetric supervision with caution in the second stage of labor, or may be given in the third stage of labor after delivery of the anterior shoulder. Hypocalcemia may cause the oxytocic response to the ergot to be reduced; cautious use of calcium gluconate IV may restore oxytocic response to methylergonovine. The accidental administration of methylergonovine during labor may produce fetal distress (fetal bradycardia, etc.) secondary to uterine tetany; however, long-term adverse effects of administration during parturition have not been reported. Methylergonovine is contraindicated in patients with preeclampsia or eclampsia; these conditions may be exacerbated by ergot alkaloids and these patients may be more likely to experience methylergonovine-related side effects.
 
Use caution in administering methylergonovine during breast-feeding. Oral methylergonovine is generally considered compatible with breast-feeding for a short duration (i.e., 1 week) of administration (manufacturer's information). Problems in infants or with the quality of lactation during short-term use have not been reported. Methylergonovine is distributed into human breast milk in small quantities. The drug inhibits maternal release of prolactin with chronic use and may therefore interfere with lactation under those circumstances.
 
Because methylergonovine is contraindicated in patients with peripheral hypertension, is it generally not recommended for use in patients with peripheral vascular disease (including thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger's disease), luetic arteritis, severe arteriosclerosis, thrombophlebitis, and Raynaud's disease), coronary artery disease (including unstable or vasospastic angina, or predisposition to vasospastic reactions), sepsis, or history of myocardial infarction. Use with caution in the presence of one or more cardiac disease risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, current tobacco smoking, obesity, diabetes mellitus, strong family history of CAD, postmenopausal females, or males over 40 years of age), unless a cardiovascular evaluation provides sufficient evidence that the patient is reasonably free of ischemic heart disease.
 
Methylergonovine has not been studied in older adults >= 65 years of age (the elderly). In general, the elderly may be more susceptible to vasoconstrictive effects of ergot alkaloids. There have been no reports of differences in response between older and younger patients with regard to methylergonovine. In general, dosing should be more cautious in the elderly, starting at the lower end of the dose range to account for differences in renal, hepatic, or cardiac systems as well as concomitant disease states and medications.
 
Methylergonovine is extensively metabolized in the liver and partially excreted in the bile. Use with caution in those with hepatic impairment or severe pruritus (i.e., biliary tract disease or cholestasis). Those with hepatic disease may be at increased risk for developing ergot toxicity due to systemic accumulation of the drug. Dosage adjustment may be needed.
 
Use methylergonovine with caution in any patient with renal disease due to the potential vasoconstrictive effects of the drug. Patients with severe renal impairment or renal failure who receive ergot alkaloids may be at increased risk of ergot poisoning because of impaired elimination. Dosage reduction may be needed.
 
Methylergonovine should be used with caution in patients with pre-existing pulmonary disease or valvular heart disease. The long-term chronic use of certain ergot alkaloids has been rarely associated with abnormal heart valve findings. Chronic use of ergot alkaloids may cause fibrotic thickening of the aortic, mitral, tricuspid, and/or pulmonary valves. Retroperitoneal fibrosis and pulmonary fibrosis have occurred in rare instances.
 
Because methylergonovine may cause vasoconstriction, patients should be advised to inform their health care provider of methylergonovine usage prior to any surgeries or related procedures. Ergot alkaloids may cause problems with plastic, cosmetic, or reconstructive surgery in particular; cyanosis, ischemia, or vasoconstriction in the skin or other tissues may occur if these drugs have been ingested within 48 hours of the surgical procedure. Methylergonovine may also interact with certain halogenated anesthetics.
 
Methylergonovine has not been found to be effective in limited clinical trials for dysfunctional uterine bleeding like menorrhagia; use for this purpose is not recommended.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Methylergonovine is contraindicated in those with known ergot alkaloid hypersensitivity.
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Methylergonovine use is contraindicated in people with hypertension.
    Headline
    coronary artery disease, diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, obesity, occlusive vascular disease, sepsis, tobacco smoking
    General Information
    Individuals with coronary artery disease or risk factors for coronary artery disease (e.g., tobacco smoking, obesity, diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia) may be more susceptible to developing myocardial ischemia and infarction associated with methylergonovine-induced vasospasm. Use methylergonovine with caution in the presence of sepsis or obliterative/occlusive vascular disease.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Methylergometrine is mostly eliminated by hepatic metabolism and excretion. Use with caution in patients with hepatic failure or impairment. No studies have been performed in subjects with hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use methylergonovine with caution in the presence of renal impairment, including renal failure. Renal excretion contributes to the elimination of methylergometrine and its metabolites, but no studies have been performed in subjects with renal impairment.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid breast-feeding during treatment with methylergonovine and for at least 12 hours after administration of the last dose. Milk secreted during this period should be discarded. Methylergonovine may produce adverse effects in the breastfed infant and may also reduce the yield of breast milk.
    Headline
    elective induction of labor, preeclampsia, pregnancy
    General Information
    Methylergonovine is contraindicated in pregnancy due to the potent oxytocic and uterotonic effects. It is not known if the drug can cause fetal harm or can affect reproductive capacity. Methylergonovine is contraindicated if preeclampsia (toxemia of pregnancy) is present, as these individuals may be more likely to experience methylergonovine-related sudden hypertensive or cerebrovascular accidents. Methylergonovine is not to be used for the elective induction of labor. The uterotonic effect of methylergonovine is utilized after delivery to assist involution and decrease hemorrhage, shortening the third stage of labor. Methylergonovine is also used for control of uterine hemorrhage in the second stage of labor following delivery of the anterior shoulder; however, use with caution during the second stage of labor. The necessity for manual removal of a retained placenta should occur only rarely with proper technique and adequate allowance of time for its spontaneous separation.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Methylergonovine is contraindicated in pregnancy due to the potent oxytocic and uterotonic effects. It is not known if the drug can cause fetal harm or can affect reproductive capacity. Methylergonovine is contraindicated if preeclampsia (toxemia of pregnancy) is present, as these individuals may be more likely to experience methylergonovine-related sudden hypertensive or cerebrovascular accidents. Methylergonovine is not to be used for the elective induction of labor. The uterotonic effect of methylergonovine is utilized after delivery to assist involution and decrease hemorrhage, shortening the third stage of labor. Methylergonovine is also used for control of uterine hemorrhage in the second stage of labor following delivery of the anterior shoulder; however, use with caution during the second stage of labor. The necessity for manual removal of a retained placenta should occur only rarely with proper technique and adequate allowance of time for its spontaneous separation.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with adagrasib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Almotriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amiodarone. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amiodarone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as amphetamines, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as amphetamines, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Amphetamines: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as amphetamines, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Angiotensin II: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with aprepitant/fosaprepitant. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and asciminib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with atazanavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with atazanavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with avacopan. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and belumosudil. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as amphetamines, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with berotralstat. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Bicalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and bicalutamide. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and bicalutamide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with lenacapavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Bromocriptine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of bromocriptine and methylergonovine. Use increases the risk for ergot-related adverse effects, such as vasospasm, including cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications are ergot alkaloids and concomitant use may result in additive toxicity.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Capivasertib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and capivasertib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and capivasertib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and carbamazepine. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Carboprost Tromethamine: (Major) Carboprost tromethamine may augment the activity of other oxytocics. Augmentation can result in uterine hypertonus with subsequent uterine rupture, particularly in the absence of adequate cervical dilation. The concurrent use of carboprost tromethamine and other oxytocic drugs is not recommended.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ceritinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with chloramphenicol. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and cimetidine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and cimetidine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ciprofloxacin. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and clofazimine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and clofazimine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cocaine: (Contraindicated) Ergot alkaloids should not be administered with vasoconstrictors such as cocaine since combining these agents may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure. There is also an additive risk of peripheral ischemia or gangrene. Ergoloid mesylates preparations are not expected to interact with sympathomimetics because this compound does not possess the vasoconstrictor properties of other ergot alkaoloids.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with conivaptan. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with crizotinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with cyclosporine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and quinupristin. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and quinupristin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Danazol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and danazol. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and danazol is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and daridorexant. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and daridorexant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with darunavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with darunavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with darunavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy if concomitant use with halogenated anesthetics is necessary. Halogenated anesthetics are associated with uterine muscle relaxation which may interfere with the effects of methylergonovine.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as amphetamines, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with diltiazem. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dinoprostone, Prostaglandin E2: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dinoprostone with other oxytocics can result in uterine hypertonus with subsequent uterine rupture, particularly in the absence of adequate cervical dilation. The concurrent use of dinoprostone and other oxytocic drugs is considered contraindicated; following the removal of the dinoprostone vaginal insert, an interval of at least 30 minutes is recommended prior to the use of another oxytocic agent. These products should be used sequentially only under adequate obstetric supervision and the patient should be monitored closely for adverse effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with dronedarone. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Droxidopa: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with duvelisib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and grazoprevir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Eletriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and ivacaftor. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Elinzanetant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and elinzanetant. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and encorafenib. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ensitrelvir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and enzalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with erythromycin. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and everolimus. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and everolimus is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with fedratinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with fluconazole. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with fluvoxamine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with fosamprenavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and fostamatinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Frovatriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and gepotidacin. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and gepotidacin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Givinostat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and givinostat. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and givinostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Methylergonovine should not interact with most food. However, the risk of ergot toxicity (e.g., vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia, peripheral ischemia and/or other serious effects) is potentially increased by the use of CYP3A4 inhibitors. Grapefruit juice inhibits the cytochrome P-450 3A4 isozyme in the gut wall. Grapefruit juice contains furanocoumarins that are metabolized by CYP3A4 to reactive intermediates. These intermediates form a covalent bond to the active site of the CYP3A4 enzyme, causing irreversible inactivation (mechanism-based inhibition). Consequently, CYP3A4 activity in the gut wall is inhibited until de novo synthesis returns the enzyme to its previous level. Therefore, grapefruit juice may decrease ergot alkaloid metabolism via CYP3A4.According to the manufacturer of methylergonovine, caution should be used when coadministering with grapefruit juice. Elderly patients have the greatest possibility of ingesting grapefruit and interacting medications and are the most vulnerable to the adverse clinical consequences.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy if concomitant use with halogenated anesthetics is necessary. Halogenated anesthetics are associated with uterine muscle relaxation which may interfere with the effects of methylergonovine.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in nitrate efficacy if concomitant use with methylergonovine is necessary. Methylergonovine produces vasoconstriction and may interfere with antianginal medications.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with idelalisib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with imatinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with isavuconazonium. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy if concomitant use with halogenated anesthetics is necessary. Halogenated anesthetics are associated with uterine muscle relaxation which may interfere with the effects of methylergonovine.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and isoniazid. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and isoniazid is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Isoproterenol: (Contraindicated) The concomitant administration of ergot alkaloids and sympathomimetics has resulted in dangerous hypertension. Ergot alkaloids exacerbate the effect of isoproterenol on increased cardiac output while producing peripheral vasoconstriction, resulting in increased blood pressure.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in nitrate efficacy if concomitant use with methylergonovine is necessary. Methylergonovine produces vasoconstriction and may interfere with antianginal medications.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in nitrate efficacy if concomitant use with methylergonovine is necessary. Methylergonovine produces vasoconstriction and may interfere with antianginal medications.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and istradefylline. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and istradefylline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with itraconazole. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and ivacaftor. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and lapatinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and lapatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and larotrectinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and larotrectinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lazertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and lazertinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with oral lefamulin. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with lenacapavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with letermovir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as amphetamines, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with lonafarnib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ritonavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and ivacaftor. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and maribavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and mavorixafor. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as amphetamines, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with mifepristone. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and mitotane. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Naratriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with nefazodone. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with nelfinavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with netupitant. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and nicardipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and nicardipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nicotine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as nicotine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with nilotinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and ergot derivatives, such as methylergonovine, is contraindicated; consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase methylergonovine exposure resulting in increased toxicity. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ritonavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with nirogacestat. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in nitrate efficacy if concomitant use with methylergonovine is necessary. Methylergonovine produces vasoconstriction and may interfere with antianginal medications.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in nitrate efficacy if concomitant use with methylergonovine is necessary. Methylergonovine produces vasoconstriction and may interfere with antianginal medications.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and osilodrostat. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Oxytocin: (Major) Methylergonovine and oxytocin both control uterine atony, and if used in combination there may be a risk of severe uterine hypertony, with possible uterine rupture or cervical laceration.
Palbociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and palbociclib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and palbociclib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and pazopanib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and pazopanib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as phentermine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as phentermine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and pirtobrutinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and pirtobrutinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with posaconazole. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and primaquine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and primaquine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Primidone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and quinine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and quinine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and ranolazine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ranolazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with relacorilant. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Remdesivir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and remdesivir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and remdesivir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ribociclib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ribociclib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and rifampin. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and rifapentine. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ritlecitinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with ritonavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and rucaparib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with saquinavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and barbiturates. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and selpercatinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and selpercatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and sevabertinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy if concomitant use with halogenated anesthetics is necessary. Halogenated anesthetics are associated with uterine muscle relaxation which may interfere with the effects of methylergonovine.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and spironolactone. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and spironolactone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and spironolactone. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and spironolactone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and St. John's wort. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and stiripentol. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and stiripentol is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Streptogramins: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and quinupristin. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and quinupristin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
SUMAtriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and ivacaftor. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and ticagrelor. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ticagrelor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may potentiate the vasoconstrictive actions of methylergonovine.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with tipranavir. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Tobacco: (Major) Advise patients to avoid smoking tobacco while taking ergot alkaloids. Concurrent use of vasoconstrictors, such as nicotine, with ergot alkaloids may result in enhanced vasoconstriction. Nicotine acts indirectly as a sympathomimetic agent by releasing catecholamines, potentially resulting in effects such as hypertension, coronary spasm, coronary ischemia, or cardiac arrhythmias, which may be additive with ergot alkaloids.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with verapamil. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Treosulfan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and treosulfan. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and treosulfan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and trofinetide. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with tucatinib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Vasopressors: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Vepdegestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and vepdegestrant. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with verapamil. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and viloxazine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and vonoprazan. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and vonoprazan. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with clarithromycin. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and vonoprazan. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vorasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and vorasidenib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with voriconazole. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and xanomeline. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and zafirlukast. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and zafirlukast is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ziftomenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and ziftomenib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
ZOLMitriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  In normal use, methylergonovine may cause GI side effects including nausea/vomiting, diarrhea, dysgeusia (reported as foul taste, rare), and abdominal pain. In use at recommended doses, methylergonovine has also caused headache, tinnitus, dizziness, and hallucinations. Anaphylactoid reactions, transient changes in heart rate, rash (unspecified), or pruritus may be reported by those sensitive to the drug. Rare, isolated reports of anaphylaxis without a proven causal relationship to methylergonovine have been received. Thrombo-phlebitis may occur with parenteral administration.Although specific effects of methylergonovine are not attributable to teratogenesis, it is known that ergot alkaloids may induce fetal harm (e.g., fetal abortion or fetal death) if used during pregnancy. Methylergonovine stimulates uterine contractions and is a potent vasoconstrictor of the placental vascular bed. Depending on the stage of labor in which methylergonovine is administered, use may cause sustained, tetanic uterine contractions or uterine rupture; the drug should not be used to facilitate labor. Use caution in the sequential administration of methylergonovine following the use of other oxytocic drugs.Excessive dosing or prolonged administration of methylergonovine may inhibit lactation. This effect is related to the suppression of prolactin. However, when used for <= 1 week at recommended dosages, methylergonovine is not likely to cause significant interference with breast-feeding.Methylergonovine or ergonovine are less vasoconstrictive than the other ergot alkaloids; however, the drugs may rarely cause effects consistent with the class. Although serious cardiac and cerebrovascular events are rare; such events have been reported following postpartum administration, particularly with parenteral administration. The most common adverse reaction is hypertension associated in several cases with seizure and/or headache. Careful monitoring of blood pressure, clinical response, and prompt evaluation of ECG changes are required. Due to a rapid onset of action, the intravenous route in particular may induce hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents (stroke). Severe headaches, mental confusion, restlessness, seizures and cerebral edema have been reported as well. The normal response of the coronary arteries in response to the ergot alkaloids is coronary vasospasm and a resultant decrease in luminal diameter of the coronary artery. Angina, temporary chest pain (unspecified), dyspnea or diaphoresis, myocardial infarction, palpitations or changes in heart rate (e.g., sinus bradycardia or sinus tachycardia) may occur. Symptoms of ergotism include angina, asthenia/weakness, chest pain (unspecified), coronary vasospasm, muscle cramps (claudication), myalgia, and paresthesias. Peripheral vasoconstriction of the arteries may result in hypothermia or tissue necrosis, which may lead to gangrene. Other complications include hematuria, hypotension, hypothermia, mesenteric artery thrombosis, renal artery spasm, or renal tubular necrosis. Seizures and coma rarely occur. Rare ocular events have included blurred vision, visual impairment (transient blindness), and retinal detachment. Patients should report any of the described symptoms promptly to their prescriber, and the drug should be discontinued. The occurrence of serious events requires appropriate treatment. Inadvertent administration of methylergonovine to newborns has resulted in hypothermia, hypertonicity, respiratory depression, reductions in splanchnic blood flow, and convulsions; one case of neonatal death has been reported.While not likely to occur with methylergonovine due to its limited indications and duration of prescription, the long-term use of certain ergot alkaloids has been associated with the development of cardiac valvulopathy. Such effects have included aortic and/or mitral regurgitation, mitral stenosis, severe tricuspid regurgitation, and pulmonary regurgitation. Chronic use of ergot preparations has caused fibrotic thickening of the aortic, mitral, tricuspid, and/or pulmonary valves. Retroperitoneal fibrosis and pulmonary fibrosis have occurred in rare instances.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Excessive dosing or prolonged administration of methylergonovine may inhibit lactation. This effect is related to the suppression of prolactin. However, when used for <= 1 week at recommended dosages, methylergonovine is not likely to cause significant interference with breast-feeding.
 
While not likely to occur with methylergonovine due to its limited indications and duration of prescription, the long-term use of certain ergot alkaloids has been associated with the development of cardiac valvulopathy. Such effects have included aortic and/or mitral regurgitation, mitral stenosis, severe tricuspid regurgitation, and pulmonary regurgitation. Chronic use of ergot preparations has caused fibrotic thickening of the aortic, mitral, tricuspid, and/or pulmonary valves. Retroperitoneal fibrosis and pulmonary fibrosis have occurred in rare instances.
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anaphylactoid reactions, diarrhea, dizziness, dysgeusia, hallucinations, headache, hematuria, hypertension, hypotension, muscle cramps, nasal congestion, nausea, phlebitis, rash, seizures, tinnitus, vomiting, water intoxication
    General Information
    The most common adverse reaction of methylergonovine is hypertension associated in several cases with seizures and/or headache. Hypotension has also been reported. Abdominal pain (caused by uterine contractility), nausea and vomiting have occurred occasionally. Rarely observed reactions have included: hematuria, water intoxication, hallucinations, leg muscle cramps, dizziness, tinnitus, nasal congestion, diarrhea, rash, and foul taste (dysgeusia). Thrombo-phlebitis has occurred with injectable use. There have been rare isolated reports of anaphylactoid reactions or anaphylaxis with methylergonovine, without a proven causal relationship to the medication.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      phlebitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      water intoxication
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    fetal death, spontaneous fetal abortion, teratogenesis, uterine contractions, uterine rupture
    General Information
    Although specific effects of methylergonovine are not attributable to teratogenesis, it is known that ergot alkaloids may induce fetal harm (e.g., spontaneous fetal abortion or fetal death) if used during pregnancy. Methylergonovine stimulates uterine contractions and is a potent vasoconstrictor of the placental vascular bed. Depending on the stage of labor in which methylergonovine is administered, use may cause sustained, tetanic uterine contractions or uterine rupture; the uterotonic effect of methylergonovine is utilized after delivery to assist involution and decrease hemorrhage, shortening the third stage of labor. Use caution in the sequential administration of methylergonovine following the use of other oxytocic drugs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      spontaneous fetal abortion
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      fetal death
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      teratogenesis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      uterine contractions
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      uterine rupture
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    angina, AV block, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), coronary vasospasm, diaphoresis, dyspnea, myocardial infarction, palpitations, paresthesias, peripheral vasoconstriction, sinus tachycardia, stroke, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    Although serious cardiac and cerebrovascular events are rare, such events have been reported following postpartum administration of methylergonovine, particularly with intravenous administration. Intravenous administration should be avoided unless medically necessary due to the risk for hypertensive episodes and cerebrovascular accidents. Rarely observed reactions to methylergonovine have included: acute myocardial infarction, transient chest pain (unspecified), peripheral vasoconstriction, coronary vasospasm, coronary arterial spasm, bradycardia, sinus tachycardia, dyspnea, diaphoresis, and palpitations. During postmarketing use, cerebrovascular accident (stroke), paresthesias, and cardiac disorders such as ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, angina pectoris, and atrioventricular block (AV block) have been reported. Symptoms of ergotism are rare with the appropriate dosing and limited duration of use of methylergonovine; symptoms of acute overdose may include nausea, vomiting, oliguria, abdominal pain, numbness and tingling of the extremities (paresthesias), rise in blood pressure and in severe, rare cases these may be followed by hypotension, respiratory depression, hypothermia, convulsions, and coma.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      coronary vasospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      diaphoresis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasoconstriction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      AV block
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    neonatal respiratory depression
    General Information
    Inadvertent administration of methylergonovine injection to newborn infants has been reported. In these cases of inadvertent neonatal exposure, symptoms such as neonatal respiratory depression, convulsions, cyanosis and oliguria have been reported. Usual treatment is symptomatic. However, in severe cases, respiratory and cardiovascular support is required.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neonatal respiratory depression
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Methylergonovine is an oral and parenteral semisynthetic derivative of ergonovine, an ergot alkaloid. Methylergonovine and ergonovine are preferentially used over the other ergot alkaloids in contemporary obstetric practice to prevent postpartum uterine atony and hemorrhage because they are most active of the ergot alkaloids on uterine tissues. Additionally, methylergonovine and ergonovine are less likely than other ergot alkaloids to cause ergot-related toxicity with repeated oral dosing and a limited duration of normal prescription use. Methylergonovine is also occasionally used off-label following first trimester abortion curettage to reduce blood loss. Methylergonovine is considered a second-line agent for uterine atony, used when massage and therapy with oxytocin has failed. While oxytocin stimulates contractions of the upper uterine segment, methylergonovine stimulates the upper and lower segments for stronger uterine tone. Endpoints of therapeutic effect include the onset of uterine contractions and the cessation of hemorrhaging following obstetric delivery. The drug may increase blood pressure or induce vasospasm in therapeutic use. The drug rarely may cause serious cardiovascular or cerebral responses. Recommended dosages and durations of treatment should not be exceeded.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Clinically, methylergonovine increases the strength, duration, and frequency of uterine contractions and decreases uterine bleeding. The drug acts directly on the smooth muscle of the uterus and increases the tone, rate, and amplitude of rhythmic contractions. Thus, it induces a rapid and sustained tetanic uterotonic effect which shortens the third stage of labor and reduces blood loss. The onset of action after intravenous administration is immediate; after intramuscular administration, 2 to 5 minutes, and after oral administration, 5 to 10 minutes.
The pharmacologic properties of the ergot alkaloids are complex. Methylergonovine is a selective and potent antagonist of serotonin receptors in various smooth muscles, a partial agonist of serotonin receptors in human umbilical and placental blood vessels, and a partial agonist and antagonist in some areas of the CNS. Although all ergot alkaloids exhibit the ability to produce uterine contractions, methylergonovine and its parent compound, ergonovine, are the most active of the ergot alkaloids on uterine smooth muscle. Methylergonovine and ergonovine are additionally partial agonists of alpha-adrenergic receptors in blood vessels, but are less potent agonists than ergotamine. The normal response of the coronary arteries in response to the ergot alkaloids is coronary vasospasm and a resultant decrease in luminal diameter. The vasoconstrictive response is most evident after parenteral administration of methylergonovine but rarely occurs with appropriate oral prescription use. Methylergonovine is a weak antagonist of dopamine in certain blood vessels, and a partial agonist and antagonist of dopamine receptors in the CNS. Methylergonovine is less potent than bromocriptine in its ability to produce emesis or inhibit the secretion of prolactin.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The bioavailability of methylergonovine after oral administration is roughly 60%. The rate of oral absorption is slower in females during puerperium (Tmax 3 h) in comparison with healthy adult males (Tmax 0.5 h). The duration of action following oral dosing is roughly 3 hours. 
 
Less than 5% of an oral dose is excreted into the urine. No accumulation of methylergonovine occurs after repeated oral administration.
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    Usually a single parenteral dose of methylergonovine is needed to initiate therapy in a timely manner. When given intravenously, a distribution half-life of only a few minutes results in an immediate, strong oxytocic and cardio- and cerebrovascular response. The duration of action following parenteral dosing is roughly 3 hours.
    Name
    Intramuscular Route
    Description
    Usually a single parenteral dose of methylergonovine is needed to initiate therapy in a timely manner. Intramuscular administration causes uterine contractions within 2—5 minutes and is the preferred parenteral route due to a lower incidence of side effects. The duration of action following parenteral dosing is roughly 3 hours.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Patients with hepatic disease may require reduced dosages of methylergonovine, but pharmacokinetic data are not available.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Data for severe renal impairment are unavailable; cautious use of methylergonovine is advised.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Inadvertent administration of methylergonovine to the neonate may result in a prolonged duration of action due to immature organ functions.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The rate of oral absorption of methylergonovine is slower in females during puerperium (Tmax 3 h) in comparison with healthy adult males (Tmax 0.5 h).
  Text
  Methylergonovine is administered orally, or parenterally by intramuscular or intravenous injection. Bioavailability is highly dependent on the storage conditions of the pharmaceutical preparations. All formulations are highly unstable if exposed to tropical conditions of heat, light, and moisture prior to use. Although methylergonovine exhibits good penetration into the breast milk in canines, average human maternal breast-milk concentrations are clinically nonsignificant. It has a short elimination half-life (normal 0.5—3.5 hours), low volume of distribution and the high total plasma clearance in healthy adults, factors that indicate rapid elimination of the drug. It is metabolized extensively by the liver; biliary excretion and limited enterohepatic recirculation may also occur.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
The risk of ergot toxicity (e.g., severe peripheral vasospasm with possible ischemia, potentially leading to gangrene, cyanosis, stroke, numbness of the extremities and/or other serious effects) is potentially increased by the use of CYP3A4 inhibitors.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Injectables: Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.
Oral Tablets: Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets
Administer orally with water.
Do not exceed the recommended dosage. The duration of treatment should not exceed 1 week.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Only use IV route if essential as a life-saving measure. Do not routinely administer IV because of the possibility of inducing sudden hypertensive and cerebrovascular accidents. 
Give IV slowly over a period of no less than 60 seconds, with careful monitoring of blood pressure, heart rate, and uterine response.
      Name
      Intramuscular Administration
      Description
      Inject deeply into a large muscle.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    For intramuscular or intravenous use only. Periarterial or intraarterial injection must be strictly avoided.
Because methylergonovine is vasoconstrictive, monitor patient's blood pressure, heart rate, and uterine response before and during administration.
Do not exceed recommended dosage limits.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. The injection solution should be clear and colorless; discard discolored solutions.
 
Avoid Medication Administration Errors:
Methylergonovine maleate injection should be stored separately from medications intended for neonatal administration.
Inadvertent administration of methylergonovine injection to neonates has been reported. In these cases of inadvertent neonatal exposure, symptoms such as respiratory depression, convulsions, cyanosis and oliguria have been reported. Usual treatment is symptomatic. However, in severe cases, respiratory and cardiovascular support is required. Methylergonovine maleate has been administered instead of vitamin K and hepatitis B vaccine, medications which are routinely administered to the newborn.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    0.8 mg/day PO for up to 7 days.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    0.8 mg/day PO for up to 7 days.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific data are not available; use caution in patients with hepatic impairment as ergot alkaloids are primarily metabolized and excreted via the liver.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific data are not available; use caution in patients with renal impairment.
