=== Aminocaproic Acid — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 24)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Aminocaproic acid is an oral and parenteral inhibitor of fibrinolysis.

Routes: oral, injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 30 g/day IV or PO; 36 g/day IV or PO has been used off-label in subarachnoid hemorrhage.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arrhythmia exacerbation, bradycardia, hypotension, confusion, delirium, dizziness, hallucinations, headache, increased intracranial pressure, seizures, stroke, syncope, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, pulmonary embolism, thrombocytopenia, thrombosis, elevated creatine kinase, fatigue, myalgia, myoglobinuria, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, weakness, injection site reaction, phlebitis, skin necrosis, anaphylactoid reactions, pruritus, rash

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Aminocaproic acid is contraindicated in individuals with an active intravascular clotting process or thromboembolism as well as disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) without concomitant heparin. Distinguish whether bleeding is a result of primary fibrinolysis or DIC before aminocaproic acid...

AMINOCAPROIC ACID

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Amicar

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of hemorrhage caused by hyperfibrinolysis

Oral dosage
Adults


5 g PO the first hour, followed by 1 to 1.25 g/hour PO for 8 hours or until bleeding is controlled. Max: 30 g/day.


Children† and Adolescents†


50 to 100 mg/kg/dose PO every 6 hours. Max: 24 g/day.


Intravenous dosage
Adults


4 to 5 g IV over 1 hour, followed by 1 g/hour continuous IV infusion for 8 hours or until bleeding is controlled. Max: 30 g/day.


Children† and Adolescents†


100 to 200 mg/kg IV, followed by 100 mg/kg IV every 6 hours. Max: 30 g/day. Alternatively, 100 mg/kg or 3 g/m2 IV, followed by 33.3 mg/kg/hour or 1 g/m2/hour continuous IV infusion, not to exceed 18 g/m2/day.


For the prevention and treatment of dental bleeding† in persons with hemophilia A or hemophilia B

For the prevention of dental bleeding† after dental surgery
Oral dosage
Adults


100 mg/kg/dose PO every 4 to 6 hours until mucosal healing is complete (10 to 14 days). Max: 2 g/dose and 24 g/day.


Children and Adolescents


50 to 100 mg/kg/dose PO every 6 hours until mucosal healing is complete (10 to 14 days). Max: 24 g/day.


Intravenous dosage
Adults


100 mg/kg/dose IV every 4 to 6 hours until mucosal healing is complete (10 to 14 days). Max: 4 g/dose and 24 g/day.


For the treatment of dental bleeding† after dental extraction
Topical dosage (parenteral solution)
Adults


Soak small piece of oxidized cellulose in approximately 2 molar solution and pack tooth socket.


For the treatment of acute gingival bleeding† unrelated to dental extraction
Topical dosage (oral solution)
Adults


1.25 g PO as oral rinse for 30 seconds after initial rinses with hydrogen peroxide followed by saline. Repeat every 4 hours until bleeding is controlled.


For intracranial rebleeding prophylaxis after recent aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage†

Intravenous dosage
Adults


4 or 5 g IV followed by 1 g/hour continuous IV infusion for up to 72 hours with treatment discontinued 4 to 6 hours before angiography when possible. Guidelines recommend short-term (less than 72 hours) therapy to reduce the risk of early aneurysm rebleeding for patients with unavoidable delay in obliteration of aneurysm, a significant risk of rebleeding, and no compelling medical contraindications.


For the treatment of hemorrhagic cystitis† induced by cyclophosphamide therapy, radiation therapy, or interstitial cystitis

Intravesical dosage
Adults


20 mg/100 mL continuous bladder irrigation until 24 hours after the urine becomes clear.


For the prevention of secondary ocular hemorrhage in patients with traumatic hyphema†

Oral dosage
Adults


100 mg/kg/dose PO (Max: 5 g/dose) every 4 hours for 5 days. Max: 30 g/day.


Children and Adolescents


100 mg/kg/dose PO every 4 hours for 5 days. Max: 30 g/day. Relative efficacy compared with placebo has not been studied in a high-risk pediatric population.


For angioedema prophylaxis† in patients with hereditary angioedema

Oral dosage
Adults


16 g/day PO in divided doses every 4 or 6 hours for up to a month then 2 to 12 g/day PO in 2 to 4 divided doses. Usual dose: 2 g PO 3 times daily (range, 1 g PO twice daily to 4 g PO 3 times daily).


For surgical bleeding prophylaxis† in cardiac surgery†

Intravenous dosage
Adults


5 to 10 g IV, followed by 1 to 2 g/hour continuous IV infusion.  Alternatively, 100 mg/kg IV, followed by 10 mg/kg/hour continuous IV infusion. When given in combination with DDAVP, 5 g IV once preoperatively. Guidelines recommend aminocaproic acid to reduce blood loss and blood transfusion during cardiac procedures.


For the treatment of symptomatic intracranial bleeding† occurring within 24 hours after administration of IV alteplase for treatment of acute ischemic stroke

Intravenous dosage
Adults


4 to 5 g IV over 1 hour, followed by 1 g/hour continuous IV infusion until bleeding is controlled. There is potential for benefit in all patients, but particularly when blood products are contraindicated or declined by patient/family or if cryoprecipitate is not available in a timely manner.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

disseminated intravascular coagulation, thromboembolism


Aminocaproic acid is contraindicated in individuals with an active intravascular clotting process or thromboembolism as well as disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) without concomitant heparin. Distinguish whether bleeding is a result of primary fibrinolysis or DIC before aminocaproic acid initiation. In DIC, the platelet count is usually decreased, protamine paracoagulation test is positive, and the euglobulin clot lysis test is normal. Do not administer aminocaproic acid without a definitive diagnosis and/or laboratory finding indicative of hyperfibrinolysis (hyperplasminemia). Inhibition of fibrinolysis by aminocaproic acid may theoretically result in clotting or thrombosis. However, there is no direct evidence that aminocaproic acid use has been responsible for the few reported cases of intravascular clotting after treatment. Rather, it appears that such intravascular clotting was most likely attributable to the individual's preexisting clinical condition (e.g., DIC).


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Do not use aminocaproic acid in hematuria of upper urinary tract origin, unless the potential benefits outweigh the risk. Aminocaproic acid use in individuals with upper urinary tract bleeding has been known to cause intrarenal obstruction in the form of glomerular capillary thrombosis or clots in the renal pelvis and ureters.

neonates


Aminocaproic acid injection may contain benzyl alcohol, and benzyl alcohol has been associated with a fatal "gasping syndrome" in neonates. The "gasping syndrome", characterized by central nervous system depression, metabolic acidosis, gasping respirations, and high concentrations of benzyl alcohol and its metabolites found in the blood and urine, has been associated with exposure to benzyl alcohol in neonates and low-birth weight neonates. Additional symptoms may include gradual neurological deterioration, seizures, intracranial hemorrhage, hematologic abnormalities, skin breakdown, hepatic and renal failure, hypotension, bradycardia, and cardiovascular collapse.


pregnancy


Use aminocaproic acid during pregnancy only if clearly needed. It is not known whether aminocaproic acid can cause fetal harm when administered during human pregnancy or if it affects reproductive capacity. Animal reproduction studies with aminocaproic acid have not been conducted.


breast-feeding


Use aminocaproic acid with caution during breast-feeding. It is not known if aminocaproic acid is excreted into human milk.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Use aminocaproic acid during pregnancy only if clearly needed. It is not known whether aminocaproic acid can cause fetal harm when administered during human pregnancy or if it affects reproductive capacity. Animal reproduction studies with aminocaproic acid have not been conducted.


Interactions

Anti-inhibitor Coagulant Complex: (Major) Use of aminocaproic acid within approximately 6 to 12 hours after the administration of anti-inhibitor coagulant complex (human) is not recommended, due to the increased risk of thrombosis.
Factor IX: (Major) In general, aminocaproic acid should not be administered simultaneously with factor IX complex, factor IX concentrates, factor IX Fc fusion protein, recombinant, and factor IX albumin fusion protein, recombinant due to the increased risk of thrombosis. Some hematologists recommend separating administration of aminocaproic acid from these clotting factor complexes by 8 hours. Aminocaproic acid has been used concurrently with human factor IX complexes or anti-inhibitor coagulant complex perioperatively in hemophiliac patients. The risk of developing thrombosis, however, is increased. In rare instances, thrombosis leading to acute myocardial infarction or gangrene has been reported in patients with hemophilia receiving combination therapy with factor IX concentrate and aminocaproic acid. Concomitant administration of aminocaproic acid with purer formulations of factor IX may also result in an increased risk of thrombosis.
Prothrombin Complex Concentrate, Human: (Major) In general, aminocaproic acid should not be administered simultaneously with factor IX complex, factor IX concentrates, factor IX Fc fusion protein, recombinant, and factor IX albumin fusion protein, recombinant due to the increased risk of thrombosis. Some hematologists recommend separating administration of aminocaproic acid from these clotting factor complexes by 8 hours. Aminocaproic acid has been used concurrently with human factor IX complexes or anti-inhibitor coagulant complex perioperatively in hemophiliac patients. The risk of developing thrombosis, however, is increased. In rare instances, thrombosis leading to acute myocardial infarction or gangrene has been reported in patients with hemophilia receiving combination therapy with factor IX concentrate and aminocaproic acid. Concomitant administration of aminocaproic acid with purer formulations of factor IX may also result in an increased risk of thrombosis.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of tretinoin with anti-fibrinolytic agents, such as aminocaproic acid. Both medications have been associated with thromboembolic adverse events and concomitant use may increase the risk.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

Aminocaproic acid is generally well-tolerated.

arrhythmia exacerbation, bradycardia, hypotension


Hypotension and bradycardia have been reported with aminocaproic acid use. Hypotension, bradycardia, and arrhythmia exacerbation have been associated with rapid IV administration of aminocaproic acid.


confusion, delirium, dizziness, hallucinations, headache, increased intracranial pressure, seizures, stroke, syncope


Headache, confusion, seizures, delirium, dizziness, hallucinations, increased intracranial pressure (i.e., intracranial hypertension), stroke, and syncope have been reported with aminocaproic acid use.


ejaculation dysfunction, renal failure (unspecified)


Increased BUN and renal failure (unspecified) have been associated with aminocaproic acid use. Hemophilia patients receiving aminocaproic acid after dental surgery have reported ejaculation dysfunction (dry ejaculation). This symptom resolved within 24 to 48 hours of completion of therapy.


agranulocytosis, leukopenia, pulmonary embolism, thrombocytopenia, thrombosis


Aminocaproic acid may inhibit fibrinolysis, theoretically resulting in clotting or thrombosis. Peripheral ischemia, pulmonary embolism, and thrombosis have been reported with aminocaproic acid use. However, there is no direct evidence that aminocaproic acid use has been responsible for the few reported cases of intravascular clotting after treatment. Rather, it appears that such intravascular clotting was most likely attributable to the patient's preexisting clinical condition, such as disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Other hematologic adverse reactions reported in association with aminocaproic acid include agranulocytosis, coagulation disorder, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia.


elevated creatine kinase, fatigue, myalgia, myoglobinuria, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, weakness


Skeletal muscle weakness with necrosis of muscle fibers has been reported with prolonged administration of aminocaproic acid. Clinical presentation may range from mild myalgia with weakness and fatigue to severe proximal myopathy with rhabdomyolysis, myoglobinuria, and acute renal failure. Myositis has also been reported with aminocaproic acid use. Monitor creatinine kinase (CPK) concentrations in patients on long-term therapy. Discontinue aminocaproic acid if elevated creatine kinase is noted. Resolution will occur with discontinuation; however, the syndrome may recur upon reinitiation. Consider the possibility of cardiac muscle damage if skeletal myopathy occurs. A case of cardiac and hepatic lesions was observed in a man who received aminocaproic acid 2 g every 6 hours for a total of 26 g. Death occurred due to continued cerebrovascular hemorrhage, and necrotic changes in the heart and liver were noted on autopsy.


abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting


Abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting have been associated with aminocaproic acid use.


dyspnea, nasal congestion


Dyspnea and nasal congestion have been associated with aminocaproic acid use.


edema, malaise


Edema and malaise have been associated with aminocaproic acid use.


tinnitus, visual impairment


Tinnitus, visual impairment (i.e., decreased vision), and watery eyes have been associated with aminocaproic acid use.


injection site reaction, phlebitis, skin necrosis


An injection site reaction, including pain and skin necrosis, have been associated with parenteral aminocaproic acid use. Prevent thrombo-phlebitis with strict attention to proper needle insertion and positioning.


anaphylactoid reactions, pruritus, rash


Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions, including anaphylaxis, pruritus, and rash, have been associated with aminocaproic acid use.


laboratory test interference


Aminocaproic acid use may cause laboratory test interference. Prolongation of the template bleeding time has been reported during aminocaproic acid continuous intravenous infusion at dosages exceeding 24 g/day. Platelet function studies in these individuals have not demonstrated any platelet dysfunction. However, in vitro studies have shown that at high concentrations (7.4 mMol/L or 0.97 mg/mL or more), aminocaproic acid inhibits adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and collagen-induced platelet aggregation, serotonin and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) release, and the binding of fibrinogen to the platelets in a concentration-response manner. Concentrations achieved in vivo clinically in individuals with normal renal function are considerably lower than the in vitro concentrations found to induce abnormalities in platelet function tests.


Description

Aminocaproic acid is an oral and parenteral inhibitor of fibrinolysis. It is indicated for enhancing hemostasis when fibrinolysis contributes to bleeding, in conditions such as aplastic anemia, abruptio placentae, hepatic cirrhosis, neoplastic disease, and in surgical complications after cardiac surgery and portavacal shunt. Do not administer aminocaproic acid without a definite diagnosis and/or laboratory finding indicative for hyperfibrinolysis or if there is evidence of an active intravascular clotting process. Aminocaproic acid use may theoretically result in clotting or thrombosis. However, there is no direct evidence that aminocaproic acid use has been responsible for the few reported cases of intravascular clotting after treatment. Rather, it appears that such intravascular clotting was most likely attributable to the patient's preexisting clinical condition, such as disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC).

Mechanism Of Action

Aminocaproic acid inhibits both the activity of plasminogen activators and to a lesser degree, plasmin activity by binding to lysine-binding sites within the plasminogen/plasmin molecule, which interferes with the ability of plasmin to lyse fibrin clots. Low concentrations of epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) inhibit in vitro profibrinolysin activation by streptokinase and urokinase. Aminocaproic acid may suppress chymotrypsin proteolytic enzymes and antigen-antibody reactions. Aminocaproic acid does not alter the concentrations of clotting factors. EACA diminishes the tuberculin reaction in patients sensitive to tuberculin. The antihistaminic action of this agent is not clinically significant.

Pharmacokinetics

Aminocaproic acid is administered orally and intravenously. Apparent Vd is estimated to be 23.1 L after oral administration and 30 L after intravenous administration. With prolonged administration, aminocaproic acid distributes throughout extravascular and intravascular compartments, penetrating red blood cells and other tissue cells. Renal excretion is the primary route of elimination; 65% of the dose is recovered in the urine unchanged, and 11% appears as the metabolite adipic acid. Renal clearance (116 mL/minute) approximated endogenous creatinine clearance. Total body clearance is 169 mL/minute. Terminal elimination half-life is approximately 2 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Oral absorption appears to be a zero-order process with an absorption rate of 5.2 g/hour. Mean lag time in absorption is 10 minutes. After a single oral dose of 5 g, absorption was complete. Mean peak plasma concentrations (164 mcg/mL) were attained 1.2 hours.

Renal Impairment

Higher plasma concentrations of aminocaproic acid may occur in patients with severe renal failure.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Liquid Formulations

Oral solution
Administer using a calibrated measuring device.
When used for oral bleeding, swish in mouth before swallowing.


Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.


Intravenous Administration


Use of an infusion pump is recommended to ensure accurate dosing.
Rapid injection of undiluted drug is NOT recommended. Rapid administration may result in hypotension, bradycardia, and/or arrhythmia.
Intermittent IV Infusion
Dilute the initial dose (4 to 5 g of aminocaproic acid) in 250 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection, or Lactated Ringer's Injection. Although Sterile Water for Injection is compatible, the resultant solution is hypoosmolar.
Administer IV over 1 hour.
Continuous IV Infusion
After the initial dose, infuse at a rate of 1 g/hour in 50 mL of diluent. This method of treatment is usually continued for 8 hours or until bleeding is controlled.


Topical Administration

NOTE: Aminocaproic acid is not FDA-approved for topical administration.
Pressure packs: Use gauze pressure packs containing aminocaproic acid, or a small piece of oxidized cellulose soaked in approximately 2 molar aminocaproic acid (prepared from the 250 mg/mL parenteral product).
Oral rinse: Rinse with hydrogen peroxide, followed by saline, then rinse with 1.25 g aminocaproic acid oral solution for 30 seconds.
Cotton swabs: For use in unconscious patients or children, apply oral solution with a cotton swab.


Other Administration Route(s)

Intravesical Administration
NOTE: Aminocaproic Acid is not FDA-approved for intravesical administration.
Administer via a 22F or 24F three-way Foley catheter inserted into the bladder.
Irrigate the bladder with 0.9% Sodium Chloride to remove all clots.
Irrigate bladder continuously with a solution containing 200 mg of aminocaproic acid added to each liter of 0.9% Sodium Chloride, starting in the recovery room at a rate adjusted according to the severity of bleeding. Adjust the rate of irrigation as urine clears, and continue for 24 hours after urine becomes clear.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

30 g/day IV or PO; 36 g/day IV or PO has been used off-label in subarachnoid hemorrhage.

Elderly

30 g/day IV or PO; 36 g/day IV or PO has been used off-label in subarachnoid hemorrhage.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Amicar 0.25g/mL Solution

Amicar 1000mg Tablet

Amicar 500mg Tablet

Aminocaproic Acid 0.25g/1mL Oral solution

Aminocaproic Acid 1,000mg Oral tablet

Aminocaproic Acid 250mg/1mL Solution for injection

Aminocaproic Acid 500mg Oral tablet

Aminocaproic Acid Bulk powder

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; dosage should be modified depending on clinical response and degree of renal impairment.

© 2026 Elsevier