=== Ziconotide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2298)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ziconotide is an intrathecal N-type calcium channel antagonist indicated for the management of severe chronic pain in patients for whom intrathecal therapy is warranted, and who are intolerant of or refractory to other treatment, such as systemic analgesics, adjunctive therapies, or intrathecal...

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 19.2 mcg/day (0.8 mcg/hour) intrathecally.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): amnesia, aphasia, ataxia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, dysgeusia, headache, hypoesthesia, impaired cognition, loss of consciousness, memory impairment, nystagmus, paresthesias, seizures, stroke, tremor, vertigo, agitation, anxiety, delirium, depression, hallucinations, hostility, insomnia, mania, paranoia, psychosis, suicidal ideation

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Ziconotide is only administered by intrathecal infusion. Adequate circulation of the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) is needed to allow for ziconotide distribution.

Brand Names
  - Prialt

Dosage Forms
  - Prialt 100mcg/mL Solution for Intrathecal Injection
  - Prialt 500mcg/20mL Solution for Intrathecal Injection
  - Prialt 500mcg/5mL Solution for Intrathecal Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intrathecal infusion dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2.4 mcg/day (0.1 mcg/hour) continuous intrathecal infusion, initially. Titrate by up to 2.4 mcg/day (0.1 mcg/hour) at intervals of no more than 2 to 3 times per week based on severity of pain, the patient's response to therapy, and the occurrence of adverse reactions. Dose increases in increments of less than 2.4 mcg/day (0.1 mcg/hour) and less frequently than 2 to 3 times per week may be used. Max: 19.2 mcg/day (0.8 mcg/hour).
    Heading
    For the treatment of chronic, severe pain in patients for whom intrathecal therapy is warranted and who are intolerant of or refractory to other treatment, such as systemic analgesics, adjunctive therapies, or intrathecal morphine

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Ziconotide is only administered by intrathecal infusion. Adequate circulation of the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) is needed to allow for ziconotide distribution. Ziconotide is contraindicated in patients with spinal cord compression or any spinal canal obstruction that impairs CSF circulation. Do not administer via intravenous administration or epidural administration. If ziconotide is accidentally given intravenously or epidurally, resultant hypotension may occur and may be treated with a recumbent posture and blood pressure support, if needed.
 
Ziconotide may cause drowsiness and confusion. Ethanol intoxication should be avoided during ziconotide receipt. Also, patients should avoid hazardous tasks like driving or operating machinery. Any task that requires complete mental alertness or motor coordination may not be able to be performed while taking ziconotide (see Adverse Reactions).
 
Patients with a history of psychiatric disorders such as depression, bipolar disorder, suicidal ideation, or schizophrenia may not be appropriate candidates for ziconotide receipt, as severe psychiatric symptoms and neurological impairment may occur during ziconotide treatment. Ziconotide may cause or worsen psychiatric conditions (see Adverse Reactions). Ziconotide is contraindicated for use in patients with a history of psychosis. During therapy, frequently monitor all patients for evidence of cognitive impairment, hallucinations, or changes in mood or consciousness. If serious neurological or psychiatric signs or symptoms develop, abruptly stop the ziconotide infusion. Withdrawal effects have not been associated with abrupt cessation of ziconotide.
 
Patients with a history of seizures may not be appropriate candidates for ziconotide receipt. Grand mal convulsion (seizures) occurred in less than 2% of patients in clinical trials and was judged by study investigators to be related to ziconotide.
 
Ziconotide use is contraindicated in patients with an infusion site infection. Patients with immunosuppression may not be appropriate candidates for ziconotide receipt. Ziconotide must be administered by an infusion pump into the intrathecal space, and is only indicated for use in patients for whom intrathecal drug administration is appropriate. Severe infections such as sepsis and meningitis may occur (see Adverse Reactions). Patients with certain infections such as meningitis or sepsis should not receive ziconotide until infection resolution. Removal and replacement of the infusion pump and catheter are often needed.
 
Ziconotide use is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hematological disease (bleeding diathesis). Patients with clinically significant thrombocytopenia or bleeding problems such as coagulopathy, hemophilia, or von Willebrand's disease may not be appropriate candidates for ziconotide receipt.
 
Elderly patients appear to experience confusion more commonly as compared with patients less than 65 years of age. For example, 42% of older patients had confusion whereas 29% of younger patients experienced the adverse event. In general, ziconotide dosage should be initiated at a low dose with careful dosage titration. Consideration of concomitant CNS depressant avoidance is warranted (see Interactions). Also, patients with dementia may not be appropriate candidates for ziconotide receipt. In addition to confusion, possible adverse effects of ziconotide include memory impairment, aphasia or speech problems, amnesia, and impaired cognition (see Adverse Reactions).
 
Patients with cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac disease, or a history of syncope may not be appropriate candidates for ziconotide receipt. Numerous cardiovascular adverse effects have been associated with ziconotide (see Adverse Reactions). If ziconotide is used, inform patients to get immediate help if they develop chest pain, a rapid heartbeat, dizziness, falls, or sweating.
 
Ziconotide is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C drug. As there are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women, the use of ziconotide should only be used if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the fetus.
 
Ziconotide, in general, should not be used in mothers who are breast-feeding. It is unknown if the drug is excreted into breast milk like many drugs. A nursing infant may experience serious adverse events if given ziconotide. Thus, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.
 
No information is available regarding the use of ziconotide in adolescents, children, or infants. Due to the absence of safety and efficacy establishment, avoid the use of ziconotide in patients below 18 years of age.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    increased risk for procedure-related complications
    General Information
    Ziconotide is contraindicated in individuals with any other concomitant treatment or medical condition that would cause increased risk for procedure-related complications and render intrathecal administration hazardous, including the presence of infection at the microinfusion injection site, uncontrolled bleeding diathesis, and spinal canal obstruction that impairs cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) circulation. Additionally, meningitis can occur due to inadvertent contamination of the microinfusion device and other means such as CSF seeding due to hematogenous or direct spread from an infected pump pocket or catheter tract. The risk of meningitis was particularly high in individuals with external microinfusion devices and catheters. Strict aseptic procedures must be used during the preparation of the ziconotide solution and refilling of the microinfusion device to decrease the risk of introducing contaminants or other environmental pathogens into the reservoir.
    Headline
    neurologic events, psychiatric disorder, psychiatric event, psychotic disorder
    General Information
    Ziconotide is contraindicated in individuals with a pre-existing history of a psychotic disorder. A severe, adverse psychiatric event and/or neurologic events may occur during treatment with ziconotide. Individuals with a pretreatment psychiatric disorder may be at an increased risk. Ziconotide may cause or worsen depression with the risk of suicide in susceptible individuals. Monitor all individuals frequently for evidence of cognitive impairment, hallucinations, or changes in mood or consciousness.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration during ziconotide therapy. Ziconotide is associated with cognitive impairment and decreased alertness/unresponsiveness.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    In all clinical trials, there was a higher incidence of confusion with ziconotide in adults older than 65 years. In general, use cautious dose selection for ziconotide for geriatric adults, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from postmarketing reports on the use of ziconotide during human pregnancy are insufficient to identify a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Ziconotide caused embryo-fetal mortality in rats when given as a continuous intravenous infusion during the major period of organogenesis, as evidenced by significant increases in post-implantation loss because of an absence or a reduced number of live fetuses. Estimated exposure for embryo-fetal mortality in the rat was approximately 700-fold above the expected exposure resulting from the maximum recommended human daily intrathecal dose of 0.8 mcg/hour (19.2 mcg/day). Ziconotide was not teratogenic in rats when given as a continuous intravenous infusion at doses up to 30 mg/kg/day or in rabbits up to 5 mg/kg/day during the major period of organ development. Estimated exposures in the female rat and rabbit were approximately 26,000-fold and 940-fold higher than the expected exposure resulting from the maximum recommended human daily dose of 0.8 mcg/hour (19.2 mcg/day) based on plasma exposure. Maternal toxicity in the rat led to reduced fetal weights and transient, delayed ossification of the pubic bones at doses of 15 mg/kg/day or more, which is approximately 8,900-fold higher than the expected exposure resulting from the maximum recommended human daily intrathecal dose of 0.8 mcg/hour (19.2 mcg/day) based on plasma exposure. The no observable adverse effect level (NOAEL) for embryo-fetal development in rats was 0.5 mg/kg/day and in rabbits was 5 mg/kg/day. Estimated NOAEL exposures in the rat and rabbit were approximately 400-fold and 940-fold higher than the expected exposure resulting from the maximum recommended human daily intrathecal dose of 0.8 mcg/hour (19.2 mcg/day) based on plasma exposure. In a pre- and post-natal study in rats, ziconotide given as a continuous intravenous infusion did not affect pup development or reproductive performance up to a dose of 10 mg/kg/day, which is approximately 3,800-fold higher than the expected exposure resulting from the maximum recommended human daily intrathecal dose of 0.8 mcg/hour (19.2 mcg/day) based on plasma exposure. Maternal toxicity, as evidenced by clinical observations, and decreases in body weight gain and food consumption were observed at all doses.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use ziconotide with caution in patients who are breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of ziconotide in either human or animal milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Monitor the child exposed to ziconotide through breast milk for sedation, which may result in respiratory depression and/or feeding problems. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from postmarketing reports on the use of ziconotide during human pregnancy are insufficient to identify a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Ziconotide caused embryo-fetal mortality in rats when given as a continuous intravenous infusion during the major period of organogenesis, as evidenced by significant increases in post-implantation loss because of an absence or a reduced number of live fetuses. Estimated exposure for embryo-fetal mortality in the rat was approximately 700-fold above the expected exposure resulting from the maximum recommended human daily intrathecal dose of 0.8 mcg/hour (19.2 mcg/day). Ziconotide was not teratogenic in rats when given as a continuous intravenous infusion at doses up to 30 mg/kg/day or in rabbits up to 5 mg/kg/day during the major period of organ development. Estimated exposures in the female rat and rabbit were approximately 26,000-fold and 940-fold higher than the expected exposure resulting from the maximum recommended human daily dose of 0.8 mcg/hour (19.2 mcg/day) based on plasma exposure. Maternal toxicity in the rat led to reduced fetal weights and transient, delayed ossification of the pubic bones at doses of 15 mg/kg/day or more, which is approximately 8,900-fold higher than the expected exposure resulting from the maximum recommended human daily intrathecal dose of 0.8 mcg/hour (19.2 mcg/day) based on plasma exposure. The no observable adverse effect level (NOAEL) for embryo-fetal development in rats was 0.5 mg/kg/day and in rabbits was 5 mg/kg/day. Estimated NOAEL exposures in the rat and rabbit were approximately 400-fold and 940-fold higher than the expected exposure resulting from the maximum recommended human daily intrathecal dose of 0.8 mcg/hour (19.2 mcg/day) based on plasma exposure. In a pre- and post-natal study in rats, ziconotide given as a continuous intravenous infusion did not affect pup development or reproductive performance up to a dose of 10 mg/kg/day, which is approximately 3,800-fold higher than the expected exposure resulting from the maximum recommended human daily intrathecal dose of 0.8 mcg/hour (19.2 mcg/day) based on plasma exposure. Maternal toxicity, as evidenced by clinical observations, and decreases in body weight gain and food consumption were observed at all doses.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use ziconotide with caution in patients who are breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of ziconotide in either human or animal milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Monitor the child exposed to ziconotide through breast milk for sedation, which may result in respiratory depression and/or feeding problems. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as tricyclic antidepressants. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as amoxapine. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. If altered consciousness occurs, consider discontinuation of either agent.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Patients taking sedatives with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of sedative cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as carisoprodol, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects. (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists-antagonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists-antagonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
busPIRone: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as buspirone, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with buspirone.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate. (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate. (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists-antagonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as carisoprodol, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as tricyclic antidepressants. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists. (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists. (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as tricyclic antidepressants. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine has CNS depressant effects and may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide if coadministered.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists. (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists. (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists. (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as tricyclic antidepressants. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as tricyclic antidepressants. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as droperidol. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Patients taking sedatives with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of sedative cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as haloperidol. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as tricyclic antidepressants. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Mannitol: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Patients taking sedatives with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of sedative cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Methadone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as methocarbamol. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Methohexital: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as mirtazipine. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Molindone: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as molindone. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Morphine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists-antagonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as nefazodone. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as tricyclic antidepressants. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine is a CNS depressant medication that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. If altered consciousness occurs, consider treatment discontinuation.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine is a CNS depressant medication that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. If altered consciousness occurs, consider treatment discontinuation.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine is a CNS depressant medication that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. If altered consciousness occurs, consider treatment discontinuation.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Opiate Agonists-Antagonists: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists-antagonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists-antagonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as tricyclic antidepressants. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as pimozide. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Pramipexole is a CNS depressant medication that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects.
Primidone: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as tricyclic antidepressants. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Quetiapine is a CNS depressant medication that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone is a CNS depressant medication that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Ropinirole is a CNS depressant medication that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as barbiturates, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a barbiturate.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
traMADol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of ziconotide and opiate agonists may result in an increased incidence of dizziness and confusion. Ziconotide neither interacts with opiate receptors nor potentiates opiate-induced respiratory depression. However, in animal models, ziconotide did potentiate gastrointestinal motility reduction by opioid agonists.
traZODone: (Moderate) Trazodone is a CNS depressant medication that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as tricyclic antidepressants. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as phenothiazines. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as tricyclic antidepressants. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Patients taking sedatives with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of sedative cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Patients taking sedatives with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of sedative cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The most common adverse effects of ziconotide appear to be dizziness, nausea, somnolence, and asthenia. Of 112 patients who received ziconotide, 47% had dizziness, 41% had nausea/vomiting, and 22% each had somnolence (drowsiness) and asthenia. Other common events included headache (15%), diarrhea (19%), ataxia (16%), abnormal gait (15%), hypertonia (11%), visual impairment or blurred vision (10%), anxiety (9%), urinary retention (9%), nystagmus (8%), dysesthesia (7%), paresthesias (7%), and vertigo (7%). Also, dysuria, urinary incontinence, diplopia, photophobia, and tinnitus occurred in at least 2% of patients who received ziconotide during clinical trials. The following adverse events occurred in less than 2% of patients in clinical trials and were judged by study investigators to be related to ziconotide: atrial fibrillation, stroke, grand mal convulsion (seizures), myoclonia, and respiratory distress (respiratory arrest or respiratory depression). Fatal aspiration pneumonia occurred in <1% of patients. Dyspnea occurred in at least 2% of patients who received ziconotide during clinical trials. In animal models, ziconotide receipt did not potentiate morphine-induced respiratory depression. Adverse reactions associated with ziconotide use appear to be dose-related and may resolve with decreasing doses. Serious adverse events are less frequent when the dose of ziconotide is titrated upward over 21 days as compared with a faster titration schedule (see Dosage).Constipation occurred in at least 2% of patients who received ziconotide during clinical trials. Although intrathecal morphine or other opioid is not recommended for concurrent use (see Interactions), other routes of opioid administration are acceptable. In one study of 112 patients who received ziconotide, over 90% also received systemic opiates. In animal models, ziconotide receipt potentiated opioid-induced reduction in gastrointestinal motility.Two cases of acute renal failure (unspecified) associated with rhabdomyolysis and extreme serum creatine kinase (CK) elevations (17,000—27,000 IU/L) and one case of myopathy with electromyographic findings have occurred in patients receiving ziconotide. Elevations of CK concentrations at least 3-times the upper limit of normal occurred in 11% of patients who received ziconotide during clinical trials. In cases where CK was fractionated, only the muscle isoenzyme (MM) was elevated. Elevated CK concentrations occurred mostly during the first 2 months of ziconotide receipt, although the time to occurrence was sporadic. Also, elevated CK concentrations occurred more often in males and in patients who also took antidepressants, antiepileptics, or intrathecal morphine. Arthralgia, myalgia, arthritis, leg cramps, or myasthenia occurred in at least 2% of patients who received ziconotide during clinical trials. Tell patients to promptly report any arthralgia, myalgia, myopathy, muscle stiffness, myasthenia, or signs or symptoms of renal failure. Monitor serum CK concentrations every other week during the first month of ziconotide receipt, monthly, as appropriate, and whenever concerning signs or symptoms (e.g., asthenia, myasthenia, myalgia, muscle cramps, or physical activity reduction) develop. If serum CK concentrations remain elevated or continue to rise, consider ziconotide dose reduction or discontinuation.Of 1254 patients who received ziconotide during clinical trials, 33% had confusion, 22% had memory impairment, 12—14% had aphasia or speech problems, and 1% had amnesia. Impaired cognition may gradually appear after several weeks of treatment. If a patient develops cognitive impairment, reduce the ziconotide dose or stop treatment. Also, consider other potential causes of the impairment (e.g., meningitis). Generally, adverse cognitive effects of ziconotide are reversible within 2 weeks of drug cessation (median range of 2—15 days). Of 1254 patients who received ziconotide during clinical trials, 12% had hallucinations, 3% had paranoia, 2% each had agitation/hostility or delirium, 1% had psychosis, and 0.4% had mania. At least 2% of patients who received ziconotide during clinical trials experienced depression or emotional lability, and 3 patients committed suicide or attempted suicide/had suicidal ideation. As compared with placebo-treated patients who had an incidence of 0.1/patient-year for suicide, suicide attempt, or suicidal ideation, the incidence for ziconotide-treated patients was 0.27/patient-year. The risk of a psychiatric adverse event may be higher in patients with a history of a psychiatric disorder such as depression, bipolar disorder, or schizophrenia (see Contraindications). If psychiatric complications develop, discontinue ziconotide and consider psychopharmacologic therapy and hospitalization. Ziconotide reinstitution needs to be evaluated on a case by case basis. Ziconotide is contraindicated for use in patients with a history of psychosis. In clinical trials, 2% of 1254 patients developed a coma-like state, as they became unresponsive or stuporous while receiving ziconotide. The patient may appear to be conscious. In one patient, a few episodes of apnea also occurred. Discontinue ziconotide if reduced levels of consciousness occur and consider other potential etiologies such as meningitis.Infection, such as sepsis and meningitis, occurred in < 2% of patients who received ziconotide and were judged by study investigators to be related to drug receipt. Ziconotide must be administered by an infusion pump into the intrathecal space. Of 1254 patients who had either an internal or external device, 40 developed meningitis. The risk is greater with external versus internal devices. For example, 37 of cases were associated with external infusion systems. Educate patients and their caregivers about signs and symptoms of meningitis such as fever, headache, stiff neck, lethargy, confusion, disorientation, nausea/vomiting, and seizures. If meningitis is suspected, obtain cerebral spinal fluid cultures and institute appropriate antibiotics. Also, ziconotide discontinuation and removal of the microinfusion system, catheter, and any other foreign body material within the intrathecal space is usually necessary.Hypertension, hypotension, postural hypotension, syncope, vasodilation, sinus tachycardia, and weight loss occurred in at least 2% of patients who received ziconotide during clinical trials. A patient developed orthostatic hypotension and nausea 6 hours after his ziconotide intrathecal infusion was increased to 0.9 mcg/hour. Despite dosage reduction to 0.6 mcg/hour, he had dysmetria (rapid, brusque movement), nystagmus, dizziness, oscillopsia, ocular flutter, and difficulty voiding. Over time, the dosage was decreased and ultimately increased to 0.75 mcg/hour. Eight days later, the patient was unresponsive and had a serum CPK of 1444 units/l, hypoglycemia, sinus tachycardia, nonspecific T-wave changes, long systolic pauses, and occasional sinus bradycardia episodes. He developed agitation and confusion. Two days after ziconotide cessation, he was awake and oriented, but he was extremely talkative, nervous, and had inappropriate laughing and word finding difficulty. Ten days after he was found unresponsive, the agitation and tremor completely resolved, but he had dysgeusia (metallic taste) with resultant anorexia. His weight loss was 20 pounds over 2 weeks. The taste changes persisted for several weeks after ziconotide cessation. Of 112 patients who received ziconotide, 10% had anorexia.Rash (unspecified), pruritus, cough, rhinitis, and sinusitis occurred in at least 2% of patients who received ziconotide during clinical trials. A patient developed nasal congestion, severe cough, sneezing, rash, nystagmus, dizziness, and ataxia during ziconotide 0.55 mcg/hour intrathecal infusion. His dosage was initiated and escalated at higher than indicated values.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    amnesia, aphasia, ataxia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, dysgeusia, headache, hypoesthesia, impaired cognition, loss of consciousness, memory impairment, nystagmus, paresthesias, seizures, stroke, tremor, vertigo
    General Information
    Severe neurological impairment may occur during treatment with ziconotide. Cognitive adverse reactions reported with ziconotide include confusion (15% to 33%), memory impairment (7% to 22%), speech disorder (14%), aphasia (12%), thinking abnormal (8%), and amnesia (1% to 8%). Cognitive disorder and disorientation have been reported in 2% or more of ziconotide-treated patients in clinical trials. Cognitive impairment may appear gradually after several weeks of treatment. Reduce the dose of ziconotide or discontinue the use of ziconotide if signs or symptoms of cognitive impairment develop, but other contributing causes must also be considered. The cognitive effects of ziconotide are generally reversible within 2 weeks after drug discontinuation. The median time to reversal of the individual cognitive effects ranged from 3 to 15 days. Use of ziconotide has been associated with impaired cognition and decreased alertness/unresponsiveness. The incidence of loss of consciousness or stupor in clinical trials was 2% in ziconotide-treated patients. During these episodes, patients sometimes appear to be conscious and breathing is not depressed. If reduced levels of consciousness occur, discontinue ziconotide until the event resolves, and other etiologies must be considered. There is no known pharmacologic antagonist for this effect. Other nervous system disorders reported with ziconotide in clinical trials include ataxia (14%), dizziness (46%), drowsiness (17%), dysarthria (7%), dysgeusia (5%), headache (13%), nystagmus (8%), tremor (7%), and vertigo (7%). Areflexia, impaired balance, burning sensation, abnormal coordination, disturbance in attention, postural dizziness, hypoesthesia, mental impairment, paresthesias, sedation, and stroke have been reported in 2% or more of ziconotide-treated patients, and seizures (clonic and grand mal convulsions) have been reported in less than 2% of ziconotide-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      aphasia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      loss of consciousness
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nystagmus
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, delirium, depression, hallucinations, hostility, insomnia, mania, paranoia, psychosis, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Severe psychiatric symptoms may occur during treatment with ziconotide. Events of acute psychiatric disturbances such as hallucinations (12%), paranoia (3%), hostility (2%), delirium (2%), psychosis (1%), and mania (0.4%) have been reported in patients treated with ziconotide. Ziconotide may cause or worsen depression with the risk of suicide in susceptible patients. In placebo-controlled trials, there was a higher incidence of suicide, suicide attempts, and suicidal ideation in ziconotide-treated patients than in the placebo group (0.27/patient year for ziconotide patients and 0.10/patient year for placebo patients). Other psychiatric adverse reactions reported with ziconotide in clinical trials include anxiety (8%) and insomnia (6%). Agitation, depression, aggravated depression, mood disorder, and nervousness have been reported in 2% or more of ziconotide treated patients; psychotic disorder and suicidal ideation have been reported in less than 2% of ziconotide-treated patients, and suicide attempt has been reported in less than 1% of ziconotide-treated patients. Management of psychiatric complications may need to include discontinuation of ziconotide, treatment with psychotherapeutic agents, and/or short-term hospitalization. Before ziconotide is reinitiated, careful evaluation must be performed on an individual basis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hostility
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paranoia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse events reported with ziconotide in clinical trials include anorexia (6%), diarrhea (18%), nausea (40%), and vomiting (16%). Abdominal pain, aggravated nausea, constipation, and xerostomia have been reported in 2% or more of ziconotide-treated patients in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue, fever, gait disturbance, lethargy, peripheral edema
    General Information
    General adverse events reported with ziconotide in clinical trials include asthenia (18%), gait disturbance (14%), fever (5%), and rigors (7%). Falls, fatigue, lethargy, and peripheral edema have been reported in 2% or more of ziconotide-treated patients in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      gait disturbance
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated creatine kinase, muscle cramps, myalgia, myasthenia, myopathy, renal failure, rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    In clinical studies, 40% of ziconotide-treated patients had elevated creatine kinase (CK) concentrations above the upper limit of normal (ULN), and 11% had CK concentrations that were more than 3 times the ULN. In cases where CK was fractionated, only the muscle isoenzyme (MM) was elevated. The time to occurrence was sporadic, but the greatest incidence of CK elevation was during the first 2 months of treatment. A case of symptomatic myopathy with EMG findings, and 2 cases of acute renal failure associated with rhabdomyolysis and extreme CK elevations (17,000 to 27,000 IU/L) have been reported in ziconotide-treated patients. Monitor serum CK in patients undergoing treatment with ziconotide periodically (e.g., every other week for the first month and monthly as appropriate thereafter). Evaluate patients clinically and obtain CK measurements in the setting of new neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., myalgias, myasthenia, muscle cramps, asthenia) or a reduction in physical activity. If these symptoms continue and CK concentrations remain elevated or continue to rise, reduce the dose or discontinue the use of ziconotide. Myalgia (2% or more), muscle cramps (2% or more), muscle spasms (6%), myasthenia (2% or more), limb pain (2% to 5%), rhabdomyolysis (less than 2%), and acute renal failure (less than 2%) have been reported in ziconotide-treated patients in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      myasthenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      myopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, meningitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    In ziconotide clinical trials, meningitis occurred in 3% of patients in the ziconotide group using either internal or external microinfusion devices and 1% of patients in the placebo group. The risk of meningitis was particularly high in patients with external microinfusion devices and catheters, occurring in 38 out of 41 patients (93%), 37 of whom received ziconotide and 1 who received placebo. Serious infection or meningitis can occur within 24 hours of a breach in sterility such as a disconnected catheter, the most common cause of meningitis with external microinfusion devices. In suspected cases (especially in immuno-compromised patients) or in confirmed cases of meningitis, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures must be obtained and appropriate antibiotic therapy must be promptly instituted. Treatment of meningitis usually requires removal of the microinfusion system, catheter, and any other foreign body materials within the intrathecal space and, therefore, discontinuation of ziconotide therapy. Sinusitis (5%), sepsis (less than 2%), and fatal aspiration pneumonia (less than 1%) have also been reported in ziconotide-treated patients in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      meningitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, diplopia
    General Information
    Eye disorders reported with ziconotide in clinical trials include blurred vision (12%), diplopia (2% or more), and visual disturbance (2% or more).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    atrial fibrillation, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension
    General Information
    Cardiovascular adverse events reported with ziconotide in clinical trials include hypotension (2% or more) and orthostatic hypotension (2% or more). Atrial fibrillation and abnormal electrocardiogram have been reported in less than 2% of ziconotide-treated patients in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angioedema, bullous rash, diaphoresis, exfoliative dermatitis, pruritus, skin ulcer
    General Information
    Dermatologic adverse events reported with ziconotide in clinical trials include pruritus (7%) and diaphoresis (5%). Hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema and serious skin reactions including bullous rash, skin ulcer, skin exfoliation (exfoliative dermatitis), and burning skin sensation have been reported with ziconotide in postmarketing experience. Respiratory distress has been reported in 2% or more of ziconotide-treated patients in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      skin ulcer
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diaphoresis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dysuria, urinary retention
    General Information
    Urinary retention has been reported in 9% of ziconotide-treated patients in clinical trials; dysuria and urinary hesitation have been reported in 2% or more of ziconotide-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Ziconotide is an intrathecal N-type calcium channel antagonist indicated for the management of severe chronic pain in patients for whom intrathecal therapy is warranted, and who are intolerant of or refractory to other treatment, such as systemic analgesics, adjunctive therapies, or intrathecal morphine. Ziconotide is not intended for intravenous administration. Severe psychiatric symptoms and neurological impairment may occur during treatment with ziconotide. All patients treated with ziconotide require frequent monitoring for evidence of cognitive impairment, hallucinations, or changes in mood or consciousness. Meningitis can occur due to inadvertent contamination of the microinfusion device and other means such as cerebrospinal fluid seeding due to hematogenous or direct spread from an infected pump pocket or catheter tract. While meningitis is rare with an internal microinfusion device and surgically-implanted catheter, the incidence increases substantially with external devices. Patients have become unresponsive or stuporous while receiving ziconotide; there is no known pharmacologic antagonist for this effect. Ziconotide is not an opioid and cannot prevent or relieve the symptoms associated with opioid withdrawal. The combination of ziconotide with intrathecal opioids has not been studied in placebo-controlled clinical trials and is not recommended.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ziconotide binds to N-type calcium channels located on the primary nociceptive afferent nerves in the superficial layers (Rexed laminae I and II) of the dorsal horn in the spinal cord. Although the mechanism of action of ziconotide has not been established in humans, results in animals suggest that its binding blocks N-type calcium channels, which leads to a blockade of excitatory neurotransmitter release from the primary afferent nerve terminals and antinociception.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Other Route(s)
    Description
    Intrathecal Route
The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pharmacokinetics of ziconotide have been studied after 1-hour intrathecal infusions of 1 to 10 mcg of ziconotide to patients with chronic pain; Vd was 155 +/- 263 mL, clearance was 0.38 +/- 0.56 mL/minute, and half-life was 4.6 +/- 0.9 hours. Both total exposure (AUC; range: 83.6 to 608 ng x hour/mL) and peak exposure (Cmax; range: 16.4 to 132 ng/mL) values in the CSF were variable and dose-dependent, but appeared approximately dose-proportional. During 5 or 6 days of continuous intrathecal infusions of ziconotide at infusion rates ranging from 0.1 to 7 mcg/hour in patients with chronic pain, plasma ziconotide concentrations could not be quantified in 56% of patients using an assay with a lower limit of detection of approximately 0.04 ng/mL. Predictably, patients requiring higher intrathecal infusion dose rates were more likely to have quantifiable ziconotide concentrations in plasma. Plasma ziconotide concentrations, when detectable, remain constant after many months of intrathecal ziconotide infusion in patients followed for up to 9 months.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    No formal studies were conducted to assess the effect of hepatic dysfunction on the pharmacokinetics of ziconotide.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No formal studies were conducted to assess the effect of renal dysfunction on the pharmacokinetics of ziconotide.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No formal studies were conducted to assess the effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of ziconotide.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No formal studies were conducted to assess the effect of gender on the pharmacokinetics of ziconotide.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No formal studies were conducted to assess the effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of ziconotide.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    No formal studies were conducted to assess the effect of weight on the pharmacokinetics of ziconotide.
  Text
  Ziconotide is administered by continuous intrathecal infusion. Ziconotide is about 50% bound to human plasma proteins. The mean cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Vd of ziconotide after intrathecal administration approximates the estimated total CSF volume (140 mL). Ziconotide is cleaved by endopeptidases and exopeptidases at multiple sites on the peptide. After passage from the CSF into the systemic circulation during continuous intrathecal administration, ziconotide is expected to be susceptible to proteolytic cleavage by various ubiquitous peptidases/proteases present in most organs (e.g., kidney, liver, lung, muscle, etc.), and thus readily degraded to peptide fragments and their individual constituent free amino acids. Human CSF and blood exhibit minimal hydrolytic activity toward ziconotide in vitro. The biological activity of the various expected proteolytic degradation products of ziconotide has not been assessed. The terminal half-life of ziconotide in CSF after an intrathecal administration was around 4.6 hours (range 2.9 to 6.5 hours). Mean CSF clearance of ziconotide approximates adult human CSF turnover rate (0.3 to 0.4 mL/minute).

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intrathecal Administration
      Description
      Ziconotide is intended for administration by or under the direction of a physician experienced in the technique of intrathecal administration and who is familiar with the drug and device labeling.
Ziconotide is intended for intrathecal delivery using the Medtronic SynchroMed II Infusion System and CADD-Micro Ambulatory Infusion Pump. Refer to the manufacturer's manual for specific instructions and precautions for programming the microinfusion device and/or refilling the reservoir.
Ziconotide may be used for therapy undiluted (25 mcg/mL) or diluted (100 mcg/mL). The 100 mcg/mL formulation may be administered undiluted once an appropriate dose has been established.
 
Dilution
Dilute ziconotide with preservative free 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection using aseptic procedures to the desired concentration prior to placement in the microinfusion pump.
Storage: Refrigerate but do not freeze all ziconotide solutions after preparation and begin infusion within 24 hours.
 
Continuous intrathecal infusion with the Medtronic SynchroMed II Infusion System
Naive pump priming: Use only the undiluted 25 mcg/mL formulation for naive pump priming. Rinse the internal surfaces of the pump with 2 mL of ziconotide at 25 mcg/mL. Repeat twice for a total of 3 rinses.
Initial pump fill: Use only the undiluted 25 mcg/mL formulation for the initial pump fill. Fill the naive pump after priming with the appropriate volume of ziconotide 25 mcg/mL. In a naive pump, ziconotide is lost due to 2 factors that do not occur upon subsequent refills: adsorption on internal device surfaces, such as titanium, and by dilution in the residual space of the device. Consequently, refill the pump reservoir with ziconotide within 14 days of the initial fill to ensure appropriate dose administration.
Pump refills: For subsequent pump refills, fill the pump at least every 40 days if ziconotide is used diluted. For undiluted ziconotide, fill the pump at least every 84 days. To ensure aseptic transfer of ziconotide into the device, use the Medtronic refill kit. Empty the pump contents prior to refill with ziconotide.
If the internal infusion system must be surgically replaced while the person is receiving ziconotide, rinse the replacement pump with ziconotide according to naive pump priming, and replace the initial fill solution within 14 days according to initial pump fill.
 
Continuous intrathecal infusion with the CADD-Micro Ambulatory Infusion Pump
Refer to the manufacturer's manuals for specific instructions and precautions for performing the initial filling, refilling of the reservoir or replacement of the drug cartridge, and operation.
Initial pump fill: The CADD-Micro Ambulatory Infusion Pump is filled for the first time with ziconotide solution at a concentration of 5 mcg/mL. This solution is prepared by diluting ziconotide with preservative free 0.9% Sodium Chloride.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Discard any ziconotide solution with observed particulate matter or discoloration and any unused portion left in the vial.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    19.2 mcg/day (0.8 mcg/hour) intrathecally.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    19.2 mcg/day (0.8 mcg/hour) intrathecally.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
