=== Capmatinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5218)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Capmatinib is a kinase inhibitor targeting mesenchymal-epithelial transition (MET), including the mutant variant produced by exon 14 skipping.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 400 mg PO twice daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, blepharedema, edema, penile edema, peripheral edema, acneiform rash, bullous rash, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, urticaria, vesicular rash, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, chest pain (unspecified), musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, hyperkalemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt capmatinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified. Patient counseling: Advise patients to limit direct sunlight (UV) exposure by using sunscreen or protective clothing during treatment with capmatinib.

Brand Names
  - TABRECTA

Dosage Forms
  - TABRECTA 150mg Tablet
  - TABRECTA 200mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients whose tumors have a mutation that leads to mesenchymal-epithelial transition (MET) exon 14 skipping
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          400 mg PO twice daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In patients with advanced NSCLC and a mutation leading to MET exon 14 skipping, EGFR wild-type and ALK negative status, and at least one measurable lesion, treatment with capmatinib resulted in an overall response rate (ORR) of 68% (complete response [CR], 5%) in patients who were treatment-naive (n = 60) for a median duration of 16.6 months in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (the GEOMETRY mono-1 study); the response lasted for 12 months or longer in 49% of patients. The ORR was 44% (CR, 0%) for a median duration of 9.7 months in patients with previously-treated disease (n = 100); the response lasted for 12 months or longer in 36% of patients.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use capmatinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with capmatinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt capmatinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Capmatinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. In rats, capmatinib exposure during organogenesis resulted in reduced fetal weights, irregular/incomplete ossification, and increased incidences of fetal malformations (e.g., abnormal or reduced joint flexion, narrowed or small tongue) at exposures approximately 0.6 times the human exposure at the clinical dose based on AUC. In rabbits, small lung lobes were observed at exposures approximately 0.016 times the human exposure. In addition, reduced fetal weights, irregular/incomplete ossification, and increased incidences of fetal malformations were observed in rabbits at exposures approximately 1.5 times the human exposure. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with capmatinib. Capmatinib can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant and those who can cause pregnancy in others to use effective contraception while taking capmatinib and for 1 week after the last dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking capmatinib and for 1 week after the last dose. Capmatinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of capmatinib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Capmatinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. In rats, capmatinib exposure during organogenesis resulted in reduced fetal weights, irregular/incomplete ossification, and increased incidences of fetal malformations (e.g., abnormal or reduced joint flexion, narrowed or small tongue) at exposures approximately 0.6 times the human exposure at the clinical dose based on AUC. In rabbits, small lung lobes were observed at exposures approximately 0.016 times the human exposure. In addition, reduced fetal weights, irregular/incomplete ossification, and increased incidences of fetal malformations were observed in rabbits at exposures approximately 1.5 times the human exposure. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking capmatinib and for 1 week after the last dose. Capmatinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of capmatinib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with capmatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with adagrasib is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of capmatinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of capmatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
Alosetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and capmatinib unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with capmatinib due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Atorvastatin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and a substrate of the efflux transporter BCRP. Capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. If coadministration is unavoidable, consider a decrease in the atorvastatin dosage in accordance with the approved atorvastatin prescribing information and clinical goals for the patient.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and amobarbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and amobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with atazanavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with atazanavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Atorvastatin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and a substrate of the efflux transporter BCRP. Capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. If coadministration is unavoidable, consider a decrease in the atorvastatin dosage in accordance with the approved atorvastatin prescribing information and clinical goals for the patient.
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if capmatinib treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Concomitant use of capmatinib may increase bendamustine exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions (e.g., myelosuppression, infection, hepatotoxicity). Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and bexarotene due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and bosentan due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and butalbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%. (Moderate) Reduction or limitation of the caffeine dosage in medications or caffeine in beverages and food may be necessary during concurrent capmatinib therapy. Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Caffeine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and carbamazepine due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and cenobamate due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ceritinib is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with chloramphenicol is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in clomipramine-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; a clomipramine dose reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase clomipramine exposure; clomipramine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with capmatinib and monitor for adverse reactions. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is a CYP1A2 substrate. Capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and capmatinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary in patients with CrCl greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-glycoprotein substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and dabrafenib due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with darunavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with darunavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with darunavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in digoxin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs; adjust the digoxin dosage or dose frequency as indicated, and continue to monitor digoxin concentrations and clinical response to guide therapy. Digoxin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased digoxin exposure by 47%.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with capmatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with capmatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with capmatinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with capmatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor and doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor and doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Edoxaban: (Major) If coadministered with capmatinib, a P-gp inhibitor, dosage reduction of edoxaban, a P-gp substrate, may be necessary for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE). An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with capmatinib. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of capmatinib. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of capmatinib; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of efavirenz and rifampin due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with efavirenz decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of efavirenz and rifampin due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with efavirenz decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with capmatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of efavirenz and rifampin due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with efavirenz decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with capmatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and elagolix due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and elagolix due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with capmatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cobicistat is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with capmatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with capmatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and encorafenib due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with capmatinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and enzalutamide due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with capmatinib increased caffeine exposure by 134%.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and eslicarbazepine due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and etravirine due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Fezolinetant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fezolinetant and capmatinib is contraindicated due to the risk of increased fezolinetant exposure which may increase the risk of fezolinetant-related adverse effects. Fezolinetant is a CYP1A2 substrate; capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased fezolinetant overall exposure by 360%.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions if coadministration of capmatinib with fosamprenavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor. Fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%. Inhibitors of P-gp may increase fosamprenavir exposure.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and capmatinib as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of pibrentasvir and capmatinib as increased plasma concentrations of pibrentasvir may occur resulting in increased risk of pibrentasvir-related adverse events. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP. Capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with idelalisib is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with itraconazole is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with itraconazole increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with capmatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; capmatinib may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with capmatinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with capmatinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a substrate of P-gp; capmatinib is an inhibitor of P-gp.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Maraviroc is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with capmatinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Mefloquine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and methohexital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and methohexital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of mexiletine if coadministered with capmatinib. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of mexiletine. Mexiletine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mifepristone is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%. The interaction is most likely when mifepristone is used chronically to treat hormonal conditions, such as Cushing's disease. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and mitotane due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; decrease the dose of either drug as necessary. Morphine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and nafcillin due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for potential naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with capmatinib. The plasma concentrations of naldemedine may be increased during concurrent use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and capmatinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with nefazodone is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with nelfinavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and rifabutin due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and pacritinib due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and capmatinib due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate. Capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit P-gp or BCRP.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and pentobarbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and pentobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and pexidartinib due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and phenobarbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and phenobarbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and phenytoin due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Monitor for pimozide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, if coadministered with capmatinib. Coadministration may result in elevated pimozide concentrations. Pimozide is metabolized primarily through CYP3A, and to a lesser extent CYP1A2 and CYP2D6; capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased risk of metformin-related adverse reactions including lactic acidosis if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Metformin is a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) and capmatinib is a MATE1 and MATE2K inhibitor. Coadministration may interfere with the renal elimination of metformin and increase metformin exposure.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions if coadministration of capmatinib with posaconazole is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%. Inhibitors of P-gp may increase posaconazole exposure.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of capmatinib with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and primidone due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and capmatinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase propafenone exposure; propafenone is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propranolol adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration of capmatinib as concurrent use may increase propranolol exposure. Propranolol is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ramelteon-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary, as concurrent use may increase ramelteon exposure.. Ramelteon is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; a dose adjustment of ranolazine may be necessary. Ranolazine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor and has the potential to increase plasma concentrations of P-gp substrates.
Rasagiline: (Major) Do not exceed a rasagiline dose of 0.5 mg once daily when coadministered with capmatinib. Coadministration may result in increased rasagiline concentrations. Rasagiline is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with relacorilant is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral capmatinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer capmatinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral capmatinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer capmatinib at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease capmatinib exposure and reduce its efficacy and may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and rifabutin due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and rifampin due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and rifapentine due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Coadministration of riluzole with capmatinib may increase the risk for riluzole-related adverse reactions, such as gastrointestinal symptoms and elevated hepatic enzymes. In vitro findings suggest an increase in riluzole exposure is likely. Riluzole is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with capmatinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Rosuvastatin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and capmatinib. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and capmatinib. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions if coadministration of capmatinib with saquinavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor. Saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%. Inhibitors of P-gp may increase saquinavir exposure.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and secobarbital due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and secobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Silodosin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase silodosin exposure.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of capmatinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and sotorasib due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and St. John's Wort due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. Johns Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with capmatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Monitor theophylline concentrations and watch for an increase in aminophylline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; an aminophylline dose reduction may be necessary. Aminophylline is a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and capmatinib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor theophylline concentrations and watch for an increase in theophylline-related adverse reactions if coadministration with capmatinib is necessary; a theophylline dose reduction may be necessary. Theophylline is a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions if coadministration of capmatinib with tipranavir is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor. Tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%. Inhibition of P-gp may increase tipranavir exposure.
tiZANidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and capmatinib as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; capmatinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate. Capmatinib is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and capmatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with tucatinib is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with capmatinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) drug transporters; capmatinib is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with capmatinib due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of capmatinib. Capmatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor; venetoclax is a P-gp substrate. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of capmatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of capmatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and capmatinib due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in capmatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voriconazole is necessary. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased capmatinib exposure by 42%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with capmatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis
    General Information
    Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis occurred in 4.8% of NSCLC patients treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial (grade 3, 1.9%); one patient died (0.3%). The median time to onset of grade 3 or higher ILD/pneumonitis was 1.8 months (range, 0.2 months to 1.7 years). Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms. Immediately interrupt therapy in patients with suspected ILD/pneumonitis; permanently discontinue therapy if other potential causes are not identified.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial lung disease
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea
    General Information
    Dyspnea (25%; grade 3 or 4, 7%) and cough including upper airway cough syndrome (21%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) occurred in NSCLC patients treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pleural effusion
    General Information
    Pleural effusion occurred in 4.3% of NSCLC patients treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity has occurred in patients treated with capmatinib including elevated hepatic enzymes and hyperbilirubinemia. Increased ALT and AST levels occurred in 15% (grade 3 or 4, 7%) of patients with NSCLC who received capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial. The median time to onset of grade 3 or higher transaminase levels was 1.8 months (range, 0.5 to 46.4 months). Increased ALT (39%; grade 3 or 4, 9%), AST (28%; grade 3 or 4, 6%), alkaline phosphatase (32%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6%), and gamma-glutamyltransferase (30%; grade 3 or 4, 6%) levels that worsened from baseline were also reported. Increased bilirubin resulted in an interruption of therapy in more than 2% of capmatinib-treated patients. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for patients with increased liver function tests.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Hypoalbuminemia that worsened from baseline occurred in 72% (grade 3 or 4, 1.9%) of NSCLC patients treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea (46%; grade 3 or 4, 2.4%) and vomiting (28%; grade 3 or 4, 2.4%) were reported in patients with NSCLC treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea
    General Information
    Constipation (19%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%) and diarrhea (19%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) were reported in patients with NSCLC treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, weight loss
    General Information
    Decreased appetite/anorexia (21%; grade 3 or 4, 1.1%) and weight loss (11%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) were reported in patients with NSCLC treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperamylasemia, pancreatitis
    General Information
    Increased amylase (hyperamylasemia)/lipase levels occurred in 14% (grade 3, 7%; grade 4, 1.9%) of patients with NSCLC who received capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial. The median time to onset of grade 3 or higher elevated amylase or lipase levels was 2 months (range, 0.03 to 31.2 months). Grade 3 pancreatitis occurred in 1 patient (0.3%); capmatinib therapy was discontinued in this patient. Additionally, increased amylase (34%; grade 3 or 4, 4.7%) and lipase (29%; grade 3 or 4, 9%) levels that worsened from baseline were also reported. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for patients with elevated amylase and lipase levels.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperamylasemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blepharedema, edema, penile edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Edema occurred in 59% (grade 3 or 4, 13%) of patients with NSCLC treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial. The term edema included peripheral edema, genital edema (e.g., scrotal and penile edema), face edema, eyelid edema/blepharedema, and peripheral swelling.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      blepharedema
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      penile edema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue (including asthenia) was reported in 34% (grade 3, 8%) of patients with NSCLC treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acneiform rash, bullous rash, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, urticaria, vesicular rash
    General Information
    Rash occurred in 12% (grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) of patients with NSCLC treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial. Additionally, allergic and generalized pruritus and urticaria were reported in less than 10% of patients. The term rash included acneiform rash/dermatitis, maculopapular rash, vesicular rash, bullous rash/dermatitis, erythematous rash, pustular rash, eczema, and erythema multiforme.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vesicular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, chest pain (unspecified), musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain occurred in 40% (grade 3 or 4, 4.3%) of patients with NSCLC treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial. The term musculoskeletal pain included arthralgia, non-cardiac chest pain (unspecified), back pain, bone pain (e.g., jaw pain, spinal pain), myalgia, and extremity pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever occurred in 14% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8%) of patients with NSCLC treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    renal failure (unspecified)
    General Information
    Acute kidney injury including renal failure (unspecified) occurred in less than 10% of patients with NSCLC treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial. Additionally, increased serum creatinine level that worsened from baseline (65%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) was also reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Infection including pneumonia (13%; grade 3 or 4, 6%) and cellulitis (less than 10%) occurred in patients with NSCLC treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial. The term pneumonia included lung abscess and lower respiratory tract infection.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Electrolyte abnormalities that worsened from baseline including hyponatremia/decreased sodium level (24%; grade 3 or 4, 6%), hypophosphatemia/decreased phosphate level (26%; grade 3 or 4, 4.4%), and hyperkalemia/increased phosphate level (25%; grade 3 or 4, 4.1%) were reported in NSCLC patients treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Hypoglycemia/decreased glucose level that worsened from baseline was reported in 23% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) of NSCLC patients treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic toxicities that worsened from baseline including lymphopenia/decreased lymphocyte count (45%; grade 3 or 4, 14%), leukopenia/decreased leukocyte count (25%; grade 3 or 4, 1.7%), and anemia/decreased hemoglobin level (24%; grade 3 or 4, 2.8%) were reported in NSCLC patients treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, vertigo
    General Information
    Dizziness including vertigo occurred in 13% (grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) of patients with NSCLC treated with capmatinib in a multicenter, nonrandomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    chills, hypotension
    General Information
    Serious hypersensitivity reactions including hypotension, fever, chills, pruritus, rash, nausea, and vomiting have occurred with capmatinib therapy. An interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary based on the severity of hypersensitivity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Capmatinib is a kinase inhibitor targeting mesenchymal-epithelial transition (MET), including the mutant variant produced by exon 14 skipping. It is indicated for the treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients whose tumors have a mutation that leads to MET exon 14 skipping as detected by an FDA-approved test. Capmatinib has caused pneumonitis and hepatotoxicity in clinical trials; monitor patients for these adverse reactions as an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary. Capmatinib may also cause photosensitivity; it is advised that patients limit exposure to ultraviolet light and wear sunscreen or protective clothing during treatment.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Capmatinib is a kinase inhibitor that targets MET, including the mutant variant produced by exon 14 skipping. MET exon 14 skipping results in a protein with a missing regulatory domain that reduces its negative regulation, leading to increased downstream MET signaling. Capmatinib inhibited cancer cell growth driven by a mutant MET variant lacking exon 14 at clinically achievable concentrations and demonstrated anti-tumor activity in murine tumor xenograft models derived from human lung tumors with either a mutation leading to MET exon 14 skipping or MET amplification. Capmatinib inhibited the phosphorylation of MET triggered by binding of hepatocyte growth factor or by MET amplification, as well as MET-mediated phosphorylation of downstream signaling proteins and proliferation and survival of MET-dependent cancer cells.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Capmatinib exposure (AUC and Cmax) increased approximately proportionally over a dose range of 200 mg to 400 mg. Capmatinib reached steady-state by day 3 following twice-daily dosing, with a mean accumulation ratio of 1.5 (CV, 41%). The exposure-response relationship and time course of pharmacodynamic response are unknown. After administration of capmatinib 400 mg to patients with cancer, peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) were reached in approximately 1 to 2 hours (Tmax). The absorption of capmatinib after oral administration is estimated to be greater than 70%).
 
The AUC of capmatinib increased by 46% when taken with a high-fat meal (approximately 1,000 calories, 50% fat) compared to fasting conditions in healthy subjects; there was no change in Cmax. A low-fat meal (approximately 300 calories, 20% fat) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on capmatinib exposure. In cancer patients, the AUC of capmatinib was similar after administration with food and under fasting conditions. Administration with a proton pump inhibitor decreased capmatinib exposure by 25% and decreased the Cmax by 38%.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of capmatinib.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of capmatinib. The pharmacokinetics of capmatinib have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/min).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (26 to 90 years) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of capmatinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of capmatinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Ethnicity (White, Asian, Native American, Black, Unknown) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of capmatinib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (35 kg to 131 kg) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of capmatinib.
  Text
  Capmatinib is administered orally. It is 96% bound to plasma proteins, independent of concentration. The apparent mean volume of distribution at steady-state is 164 liters. The blood-to-plasma ratio was 1.5, but decreased at higher concentrations to 0.9. The effective elimination half-life of capmatinib is 6.5 hours, and the mean steady-state apparent clearance is 24 liters/hour (CV, 82%). After a single oral radiolabeled dose of capmatinib to healthy volunteers, 78% of the dose was recovered in feces (unchanged, 42%) and 22% was recovered in the urine; the amount of unchanged drug in the urine was minimal.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP3A, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, MATE1, MATE2K
Capmatinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and aldehyde oxidase; in vitro, it is also a P-gp substrate. Capmatinib inhibits CYP1A2, P-gp, and BCRP in vivo; in vitro, it also reversibly inhibits MATE1 and MATE2K.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Potential
Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
Patient Counseling
Advise patients to limit direct sunlight (UV) exposure by using sunscreen or protective clothing during treatment with capmatinib.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Capmatinib may be taken with or without food.
Swallow tablets whole; do not break, crush, or chew the tablet.
If a dose is missed or the patient vomits, the next dose should be taken at the regularly scheduled time; do not take an additional dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    400 mg PO twice daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    400 mg PO twice daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and effectiveness have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and effectiveness have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
 
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity
Increased ALT and/or AST without increased total bilirubin
Grade 3: Hold capmatinib therapy. If ALT/AST recovers to baseline within 7 days, resume capmatinib treatment at the same dose. If resolution occurs after 7 days, resume capmatinib treatment at a reduced dose.
Grade 4: Permanently discontinue capmatinib therapy.
 
Increased ALT and/or AST with increased total bilirubin (in the absence of cholestasis or hemolysis)
AST/ALT greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) with total bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN: Permanently discontinue capmatinib therapy.
 
Increased total bilirubin without a concurrent increase in ALT and/or AST
Grade 2: Hold capmatinib therapy. If bilirubin recovers to baseline within 7 days, resume capmatinib treatment at the same dose. If resolution occurs after 7 days, resume capmatinib treatment at a reduced dose.
Grade 3: Hold capmatinib therapy. If bilirubin recovers to baseline within 7 days, resume capmatinib treatment at a reduced dose. If resolution occurs after 7 days, permanently discontinue capmatinib therapy.
Grade 4: Permanently discontinue capmatinib therapy.
  Renal Impairment
  Mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min): No dose adjustment is recommended.
Severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/min): Capmatinib has not been studied in this population.
