=== Reteplase (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 788)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: intravenous; Common adult doses: 20 units IV.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, bleeding, gi bleeding, intracranial bleeding, cholesterol microembolization, hypertension, livedo reticularis, myocardial infarction, pancreatitis, purple-toe syndrome, renal failure (unspecified), rhabdomyolysis, anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, edema, erythema, hypotension, pruritus, rash

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Reteplase can be hazardous in patients with atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, or other cardiac disease that increases the likelihood for cerebral embolism and should be avoided if possible. In addition, cardiac arrhythmias, including sinus bradycardia, premature ventricular depolarizations, and... NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

Brand Names
  - Retavase
  - Retavase Half-Kit

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 units IV every 30 minutes for 2 doses.
    Heading
    For the treatment of acute myocardial infarction, STEMI for reduction of cardiovascular mortality and heart failure
    Routes
      Heading
      Intra-arterial dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.125 to 2 units/hour intra-arterially until recanalization and clot lysis in combination with low-dose heparin. Doses more than 0.5 units/hour may be associated with higher bleeding rates.
    Heading
    For the treatment of peripheral arterial thromboembolism†
    Routes
      Heading
      Intracatheter dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.4 units instilled into the catheter lumen and allowed to dwell for at least 30 minutes has been studied. Additional doses of 0.4 units have been used and dwell times have exceeded 30 minutes. Higher doses (up to 3 units/lumen) have been studied, but lower doses appear to be just as effective.
    Heading
    For reestablishing patency of an occluded IV catheter† or occluded arteriovenous (AV) cannula† (e.g., fistula)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Reteplase can be hazardous in patients with atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, or other cardiac disease that increases the likelihood for cerebral embolism and should be avoided if possible. In addition, cardiac arrhythmias, including sinus bradycardia, premature ventricular depolarizations, and ventricular tachycardia, can develop as a result of reperfusion following coronary thrombolysis (see Adverse Reactions). Reteplase is contraindicated in patients with severe uncontrolled hypertension (systolic blood pressure >= 200 mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressure >= 110 mmHg).
 
Due to an increased risk for bleeding, thrombolytics are contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation; known coagulopathy or bleeding diathesis; active internal bleeding; brain tumor or intracranial mass; intracranial surgery or intraspinal surgery within the last 2 months; history of head trauma, or history of cerebrovascular accident (stroke). In the following relative contraindications, the risk of thrombolytic therapy may be increased and should be weighed against the anticipated benefits. Thrombolytics are relatively contraindicated in patients whom have recently (within the past 10 days) undergone or experienced GI bleeding (e.g., peptic ulcer disease) or genitourinary bleeding, major surgery (e.g., CABG), obstetric delivery, organ biopsy, trauma (including cardiopulmonary resuscitation), or venipuncture of a noncompressible vessel. Thrombolytics are also relatively contraindicated in patients with acute pericarditis, diabetic retinopathy (or other hemorrhagic ophthalmic conditions), infectious endocarditis, mitral stenosis with atrial fibrillation, or other conditions with a high risk of left heart thrombus. Thrombolytic therapy should also be used with extreme caution in other conditions that can be exacerbated as a result of bleeding or in which bleeding could be hazardous or difficult to control due to its location.
 
Use thrombolytics with caution in patients with hemostatic defects due to severe hepatic disease or renal disease associated with renal failure; the bleeding risk of reteplase may be increased and should be weighed against the anticipated benefits.
 
Intramuscular injections of other medications should be avoided in patients receiving reteplase. Intramuscular injections may cause bleeding, bruising, or hematomas due to anticoagulant effects secondary to reteplase therapy. Avoid any nonessential handling of patients; venipunctures should be performed carefully and only as required.
 
Systemic infection can occur if reteplase is administered into an occluded IV or AV cannula that is proximal to an infection site or in the presence of septic thrombophlebitis.
 
Thrombolytics should be used with caution in patients who have recently received glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors or anticoagulant therapy (e.g., warfarin) due to the potential for enhanced risk of bleeding.
 
In general, the use of thrombolysis in the elderly (age > 75 years) is controversial due to the uncertain benefits of therapy, relative to the increased risk of bleeding events.
 
Reteplase is classified in FDA pregnancy risk category C. In general, thrombolytics are relatively contraindicated during pregnancy. Reteplase should only be used during pregnancy when the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential fetal risks. Animal data reveal that reteplase has an abortifacient effect in rabbits. However, there was no evidence of fetal anomalies in rats receiving doses up to 15 times the human dose. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women.
 
It is unknown whether reteplase is excreted into breast milk. Reteplase should be used during breast-feeding only when the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risks to the infant.
 
The safety and effectiveness of reteplase in children have not been established.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Reteplase is contraindicated in severe uncontrolled hypertension.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bleeding, bleeding disorder, brain tumor, cerebral aneurysm, cerebral arteriovenous malformation, head trauma, stroke, surgery
    General Information
    Reteplase is contraindicated in individuals with active internal bleeding, recent stroke, intracranial or intraspinal surgery or serious head trauma within the last 3 months, intracranial conditions that increase the risk of bleeding (e.g., brain tumor, cerebral arteriovenous malformation, cerebral aneurysm), and bleeding disorder. Reteplase can cause significant and sometimes fatal bleeding. Bleeding from recent puncture sites or other recent trauma may occur. Discontinue concomitant anticoagulant therapy if serious bleeding, uncontrollable by local pressure, occurs. Withhold the second reteplase dose if serious bleeding occurs before it is administered.
    Headline
    intramuscular injections, venipuncture
    General Information
    Avoid intramuscular injections in patients receiving reteplase. Minimize venipuncture. Avoid puncturing noncompressible veins (e.g., internal jugular, subclavian). If an arterial puncture is necessary, use an upper extremity vessel that is accessible to manual compression, apply pressure for at least 30 minutes, and monitor the puncture site closely. Reteplase can cause significant and sometimes fatal bleeding. Bleeding from recent puncture sites or other recent trauma may occur. Discontinue concomitant anticoagulant therapy if serious bleeding, uncontrollable by local pressure, occurs. Withhold the second reteplase dose if serious bleeding occurs before it is administered.
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Reteplase may cause laboratory test interference. Coagulation tests and measures of fibrinolytic activity are unreliable during reteplase therapy unless specific precautions are taken to prevent in vitro artifacts. Reteplase remains active under in vitro conditions, which can result in degradation of fibrinogen in blood samples.
    Headline
    labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy
    General Information
    Limited published data with reteplase use in human pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, reteplase administration to pregnant rabbits at doses 3 times the human dose resulted in genital tract hemorrhage, leading to abortions in mid-gestation. However, there was no evidence of fetal anomalies in rats at doses up to 15 times the human dose. The most common complication of thrombolytic therapy is bleeding, and pregnancy, labor, or obstetric delivery may increase this risk.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There is no data on the presence of reteplase in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed infant, or the effects on milk production. Reteplase has not been studied in breast-feeding mothers.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There is no data on the presence of reteplase in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed infant, or the effects on milk production. Reteplase has not been studied in breast-feeding mothers.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy: (Moderate) Avoid administering a thrombolytic to patients with amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA), a common side effect of antiamyloid-beta monoclonal antibody therapy. In patients without ARIA or in whom ARIA cannot be adequately assessed, consider the risk for ARIA as a part of the risk-benefit assessment for determining thrombolytic therapy eligibility. Thrombolytics may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy who develop ARIA.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antithrombin III is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving antithrombin III and consider delaying the initiation of antithrombin III therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Apixaban: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thrombolytics and direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs). For acute ischemic stroke, avoid thrombolytics in patients that have received a DOAC within the previous 48 hours and consider delaying the initiation of anticoagulant therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those receiving a DOAC with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Argatroban: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and thrombin inhibitors is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving thrombin inhibitors and consider delaying the initiation of thrombin inhibitor therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding. (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and thrombin inhibitors is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving thrombin inhibitors and consider delaying the initiation of thrombin inhibitor therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Camphor; Menthol; Methyl Salicylate : (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and thrombolytics when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as thrombolytic agents. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Dabigatran: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thrombolytics and direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs). For acute ischemic stroke, avoid thrombolytics in patients that have received a DOAC within the previous 48 hours and consider delaying the initiation of anticoagulant therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those receiving a DOAC with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients that have received a therapeutic dose of LMWH in the previous 24 hours and consider delaying the initiation of therapeutic LMWH therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with fibrinolytics (thrombolytic agents) is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with fibrinolytics are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue systemic fibrinolytic therapy (not including use for routine maintenance or reopening of central venous catheters) prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the fibrinolytic have abated.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as desvenlafaxine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as thrombolytic agents. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Direct Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs): (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thrombolytics and direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs). For acute ischemic stroke, avoid thrombolytics in patients that have received a DOAC within the previous 48 hours and consider delaying the initiation of anticoagulant therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those receiving a DOAC with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Donanemab: (Moderate) Avoid administering a thrombolytic to patients with amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA), a common side effect of antiamyloid-beta monoclonal antibody therapy. In patients without ARIA or in whom ARIA cannot be adequately assessed, consider the risk for ARIA as a part of the risk-benefit assessment for determining thrombolytic therapy eligibility. Thrombolytics may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy who develop ARIA.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as duloxetine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as thrombolytic agents. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Edoxaban: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thrombolytics and direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs). For acute ischemic stroke, avoid thrombolytics in patients that have received a DOAC within the previous 48 hours and consider delaying the initiation of anticoagulant therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those receiving a DOAC with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients that have received a therapeutic dose of LMWH in the previous 24 hours and consider delaying the initiation of therapeutic LMWH therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as thrombolytic agents. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Etodolac: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as thrombolytic agents. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as thrombolytic agents. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and fondaparinux is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving fondaparinux and consider delaying the initiation of fondaparinux therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Since garlic produces clinically-significant antiplatelet effects, it should be used cautiously in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Avoid concurrent use of herbs which interact with thrombolytic agents when possible. If Garlic supplements are taken, monitor appropriate parameters to attain proper clinical endpoints.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) Since ginger inhibits thromboxane synthetase, a platelet aggregation inducer, and is a prostacyclin agonist, use with caution during times when bleeding is a concern. This includes patients receiving thrombolytic agents, however, no clinical data are available.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and thrombolytic agents as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals. It is possible that the use of green tea may increase the risk of bleeding if coadministered with thrombolytic agents. Caution and careful monitoring of clinical and/or laboratory parameters are warranted if green tea and thrombolytics are coadministered.
Heparin: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and heparin is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving heparin and consider delaying the initiation of heparin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with coagulation such as thrombolytic agents; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with thrombolytic agents is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Icosapent ethyl is an ethyl ester of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Because omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when icosapent ethyl is used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 36 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant icosapent ethyl therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Lecanemab: (Moderate) Avoid administering a thrombolytic to patients with amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA), a common side effect of antiamyloid-beta monoclonal antibody therapy. In patients without ARIA or in whom ARIA cannot be adequately assessed, consider the risk for ARIA as a part of the risk-benefit assessment for determining thrombolytic therapy eligibility. Thrombolytics may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy who develop ARIA.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with an SNRI.
Low Molecular Weight Heparins: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients that have received a therapeutic dose of LMWH in the previous 24 hours and consider delaying the initiation of therapeutic LMWH therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Agents that decrease clotting, such as thrombolytic agents, could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with an SNRI.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Naproxen: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as thrombolytic agents. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as thrombolytic agents. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and pentosan is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving pentosan and consider delaying the initiation of pentosan therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Platelet Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and thrombolytics. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thrombolytics and direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs). For acute ischemic stroke, avoid thrombolytics in patients that have received a DOAC within the previous 48 hours and consider delaying the initiation of anticoagulant therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those receiving a DOAC with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Salicylates (selected): (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as thrombolytic agents. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as thrombolytic agents. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Sulindac: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Thrombin Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and thrombin inhibitors is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving thrombin inhibitors and consider delaying the initiation of thrombin inhibitor therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, prolong bleeding time; these pharmacodynamic effects may be increased when administered to patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored closely for bleeding.
traZODone: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by trazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with trazodone.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as venlafaxine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as thrombolytic agents. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with thrombolytic agents is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease clotting like thrombolytic agents could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with vilazodone.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding when a thrombolytic agent is administered with vortioxetine and instructed to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Warfarin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thrombolytics and warfarin. For acute ischemic stroke, thrombolytics may be considered in patients receiving warfarin with an INR less than 1.7; consider delaying the initiation of anticoagulant therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Bleeding complications are the most common adverse reactions associated with reteplase therapy. The overall incidence of bleeding associated with reteplase during clinical trials was 21.1% (n=3805). During the International Joint Efficacy Comparison of Thrombolytics (INJECT) study, the rate of in-hospital intracranial bleeding was 0.8% (23 of 2965). Similar to other thrombolytics, the risk of intracranial bleeding or stroke is increased in patients with advanced age (> 75 years) or with elevated blood pressure (> 180/110 mmHg). Severe spontaneous bleeding includes genitourinary, retroperitoneal bleeding, intracranial bleeding or stroke, and GI bleeding. During major clinical trials, the incidence of bleeding varied depending upon the use of arterial catheterization or other invasive procedures and whether the study was performed in Europe or the United States. All patients involved in the RAPID studies (RAPID 1 and RAPID 2) underwent arterial catheterization. In the USA RAPID studies (n=210), injection site, GI bleeding, and genitourinary bleeding were reported in 48.6%, 9%, and 9.5% of patients, respectively. In the European RAPID studies (n=113), the hemorrhage rates were 19.5%, 1.8%, and 0.9%, respectively. In the INJECT studies (n=2965), the bleeding rates were 4.6%, 2.5%, and 1.6%, respectively. Anemia secondary to bleeding at any site occurred at rates of 1.4% (RAPID-USA), 0.9% (RAPID-Europe), and 2.6% (INJECT). Other manifestations of bleeding can include hematoma, ecchymosis, purpura, hematuria, or hemoptysis. Concurrent therapy with heparin or other anticoagulants may also contribute to bleeding risk.Cholesterol microembolization has been reported rarely in patients receiving thrombolytic agents; the true incidence is unknown. This condition, which can be fatal, is also associated with invasive vascular procedures (e.g., cardiac catheterization, angiography, or vascular surgery) and/or anticoagulant therapy. Clinical features include livedo reticularis such as 'purple toe syndrome', acute renal failure, gangrenous digitus, hypertension, pancreatitis, myocardial infarction, cerebral infarction, spinal cord infarction, retinal artery occlusion, bowel infarction, or rhabdomyolysis.Nausea/vomiting, hypotension, and fever have been reported during administration of reteplase, but it is uncertain if these adverse reactions are associated with the myocardial infarction or are attributable to reteplase.Serious allergic reactions were noted in 3 patients among the 2965 patients treated with reteplase in the International Joint Efficacy Comparison of Thrombolytics (INJECT) studies. One patient experienced dyspnea and hypotension. No anaphylactoid reactions were reported during initial clinical trials (n=3856), however, in an ongoing clinical trial, 2 cases of anaphylactoid reactions were reported among approximately 2500 reteplase-treated patients. Antibody formation to reteplase has not been reported. While not specifically reported with reteplase, angioedema has been reported with most other thrombolytic agents. Patients should be monitored for serious allergic reactions when administered any of these agents.Other serious reactions reported may be sequelae of the underlying diseases studied, and the true incidence and causality of these events relative to reteplase are unknown. These events include AV block, cardiac arrest, cardiac tamponade, cardiogenic shock, electromechanical dissociation, embolism, heart failure, intracranial hemorrhage, mitral regurgitation, myocardial rupture, pericardial effusion, pericarditis, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), pulmonary edema, recurrent ischemia, reinfarction, sinus bradycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), thrombosis, ventricular fibrillation, and ventricular tachycardia.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
    Headline
    anemia, bleeding, GI bleeding, intracranial bleeding
    General Information
    Bleeding is the most common adverse reaction associated with reteplase. If serious bleeding occurs, discontinue concomitant anticoagulant therapy and withhold the second reteplase dose if not yet given. The overall incidence of any bleeding event in patients treated with reteplase during clinical trials (n = 3,805) was 21.1%. The overall rate of in-hospital intracranial bleeding was 0.8% during the INJECT study. The risk for intracranial bleeding or stroke is increased in patients with advanced age (2.2% in patients older than 70 years) or with elevated blood pressure (2.4% in patients with systolic blood pressure more than 160 mmHg). The incidence of other types of bleeding events during clinical trials varied depending on the use of arterial catheterization or other invasive procedures and whether the study was performed in Europe or the United States. All patients involved in the RAPID studies (RAPID 1 and RAPID 2) underwent arterial catheterization. In the US RAPID studies (n = 210), injection site, GI bleeding, and genitourinary bleeding were reported in 48.6%, 9%, and 9.5% of patients, respectively. In the European RAPID studies (n = 113), the related bleeding rates were 19.5%, 1.8%, and 0.9%, respectively. In the INJECT study (n = 2,965), the related bleeding rates were 4.6%, 2.5%, and 1.6%, respectively. Anemia secondary to bleeding at any site occurred at rates of 1.4% (RAPID-US), 0.9% (RAPID-Europe), and 2.6% (INJECT). In these studies, the severity and sites of bleeding events were similar for reteplase and the comparison thrombolytic agents.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cholesterol microembolization, hypertension, livedo reticularis, myocardial infarction, pancreatitis, purple-toe syndrome, renal failure (unspecified), rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    Cholesterol microembolization has been reported in patients receiving thrombolytic agents. Clinical features include livedo reticularis, purple-toe syndrome, acute renal failure (unspecified), gangrenous digits, hypertension, pancreatitis, myocardial infarction, cerebral infarction, spinal cord infarction, retinal artery occlusion, bowel infarction, or rhabdomyolysis. This condition, which can be fatal, is also associated with invasive vascular procedures (e.g., cardiac catheterization, angiography, or vascular surgery) and/or anticoagulant therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cholesterol microembolization
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      livedo reticularis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      purple-toe syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, edema, erythema, hypotension, pruritus, rash
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity or anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with reteplase administration. Withhold the second dose of reteplase and initiate appropriate therapy if a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs. Signs and symptoms observed include rash, pruritus, erythema, glossal edema, hypotension, dyspnea, and respiratory distress. During clinical trials, serious allergic reactions were noted in 3 of 2,965 patients. In a postmarketing clinical study, 8 of 9,938 patients experienced allergic and/or anaphylactoid reactions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Reteplase is an intravenous recombinant plasminogen activator indicated for the treatment of acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) to reduce the risk of death and heart failure. Reteplase is produced by recombinant genetic technology in Escherichia coli cells. Reteplase contains 355 of the 527 amino acids found in the human tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) corresponding to amino acid coding sequences 1 thru 3 and 176 thru 527. Reteplase consists of only the kringle-2 and protease domains of the tPA molecule. The reteplase molecule does not possess the epidermal growth factor (EGF), finger, and kringle-1 domains found in human tPA. The EGF and kringle-1 domains are associated with liver receptor binding. In addition, reteplase is not glycosylated. Lack of these domains and glycosylation may contribute to the longer half-life of reteplase compared to human tPA. Compared to alteplase, reteplase is more potent and has a more rapid onset of action. Although a clinical trial reported a higher coronary artery patency rate in patients receiving reteplase than in those receiving alteplase, a randomized, controlled trial of over 15,000 patients with acute myocardial infarction demonstrated similar 30-day mortality rates between the 2 drugs (7.43% vs. 7.22%). Reteplase and alteplase were also associated with similar rates of stroke in this study (1.64% vs. 1.79%). In another trial, reteplase was at least as effective as streptokinase in reducing mortality rates in patients with acute myocardial infarction. In a preliminary angiographic trial after acute MI, the combination of standard dose abciximab with reduced-dose reteplase therapy has been shown to enhance early patency. However, the landmark GUSTO V outcome trial did not show a significant improvement in 30-day mortality, when reduced-dose reteplase was combined with standard abciximab therapy for the treatment of acute MI. The GUSTO V combination therapy significantly reduced the overall MI complication rate by about 10% (31.7% vs. 28.6% frequency) including reinfarction but was associated with a 2-fold increase in moderate to severe non-intracranial bleeding complications, including spontaneous GI bleeding.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Reteplase is a "fibrin-selective" thrombolytic agent. The activation of plasminogen by reteplase is stimulated in the presence of fibrin and is mediated by the kringle-2 domain. Reteplase exerts its action on the endogenous fibrinolytic system by cleaving the arginine-valine bond in plasminogen to convert plasminogen to plasmin. Plasmin degrades fibrin and fibrinogen as well as the coagulation factors V and VIII. Unlike streptokinase or urokinase, most of the activity of reteplase is dependent on the presence of fibrin. Minimal amounts of plasminogen are converted to plasmin in the absence of fibrin.
 
In the presence of perfused clots, reteplase acts differently than tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA). Reteplase penetrates the clots and activates plasminogen inside the clot, while t-PA binds tightly to the fibrin matrix and accumulates on the surface of the clot. This difference is possibly due to the lower affinity of reteplase for fibrin compared to t-PA. Pharmacodynamic differences and pharmacokinetic differences between reteplase and t-PA may account for the higher initial clot lysis rates reported with reteplase.

Pharmacokinetics
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Reteplase is administered intravenously. Based on measurements of thrombolytic activity, reteplase is cleared from plasma at a rate of 250 to 450 mL/minute with an effective half-life of 13 to 16 minutes. Reteplase is primarily cleared by the liver and kidney.
 
The majority of patients (64%) treated for myocardial infarction had a decrease in fibrinogen concentrations to below 100 mg/dL within 2 hours of reteplase administration during a controlled trial. The mean fibrinogen concentration returned to baseline by 48 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Reteplase potency is expressed in units using a reference standard, which is specific for reteplase and is not comparable with units used for other thrombolytic agents.
 
Reconstitution
Reconstitute immediately prior to administration.
Reconstitute only with Sterile Water for Injection provided.
Connect the sterile prefilled syringe to the reconstitution spike and firmly insert the spike into the vial of reteplase.
Connect the syringe plunger to the sterile 10 mL prefilled syringe by screwing the plunger into the rubber stopper.
Transfer the 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection through the reconstitution spike into the vial or reteplase.
With the reconstitution spike and empty prefilled syringe still attached to the vial, swirl the vial gently to dissolve the reteplase. Do not shake. The resulting solution concentration is 1 unit/mL and delivers 10 units of reteplase.
Slight foaming upon reconstitution may occur; allow the vial to stand undisturbed for several minutes to dissipate any large bubbles.
Disconnect the empty prefilled syringe from the reconstitution spike.
Connect the graduated syringe to the reconstitution spike that is still attached to the vial. Withdraw 10 mL of the reteplase solution into the graduated syringe, and detach the graduated syringe from the reconstitution spike.
 
Intravenous injection
Do not administer reteplase through an IV line containing heparin.
Administer IV over 2 minutes. Administer the second dose 30 minutes after the first dose.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    20 units IV.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    20 units IV.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
